
1    SPACE                                                           

The boundless heavens serve as a back-drop for the MAIN TITLE, followed 
by a ROLL-UP, which crawls into infinity.

Episode VI
RETURN OF THE JEDI

Luke Skywalker has returned to his home planet of Tatooine in an 
attempt to rescue his friend Han Solo from the clutches of the√ävile 
gangster Jabba the Hutt. Little does Luke know that the GALACTIC EMPIRE 
has secretly begun construction on a new armored space station even 
more powerful than the first dreaded Death Star. When completed, this 
ultimate weapon will spell certain doom for the small band of Rebels 
struggling to restore freedom to the galaxy...

PAN DOWN to reveal a monstrous half-completed Death Star, its massive 
superstructure curling away from the completed section like the arms of 
a giant octopus. Beyond, in benevolent contrast, floats the small, 
green moon of ENDOR.

An Imperial Star Destroyer moves overhead toward the massive armored 
space station, followed by two zipping TIE fighters. A small Imperial 
shuttle rockets from the main bay of the ship and hustles toward the 
Death Star.

2    INT IMPERIAL SHUTTLE - COCKPIT 
The shuttle captain makes contact with the Death Star.

SHUTTLE CAPTAIN
Command station, this is ST 321. Code Clearance Blue. We're starting 
our approach. Deactivate the security shield.

DEATH STAR CONTROLLER	(filtered VO)
The security deflector shield will be deactivated when we have 
confirmation of your code transmission. Stand by... You are clear to 
proceed.

SHUTTLE CAPTAIN
We're starting our approach.

3    INT DEATH STAR - CONTROL ROOM

Operators move about among the control panels. A SHIELD OPERATOR hits 
switches beside a large screen, on which is a display of the Death 
Star, the moon Endor, and a bright web delineating the invisible 
deflector shield.

A control officer rushes over to the shield operator.

OFFICER
Inform the commander that Lord Vader's shuttle has arrived.

OPERATOR
Yes, sir.

The control officer moves to a view port and watches as the Imperial 
shuttle lands in the massive docking bay. A squad of Imperial 
stormtroopers moves into formation before the craft.

4    INT DEATH STAR - MAIN DOCKING BAY

The DEATH STAR COMMANDER, MOFF JERJERROD, a tall, confident technocrat, 
strides through the assembled troops to the base of the shuttle ramp. 
The troops snap to attention; many are uneasy about the new arrival. 
But the Death Star commander stands arrogantly tall.

The exit hatch of the shuttle opens with a WHOOSH, revealing only 
darkness. Then, heavy FOOTSTEPS AND MECHANICAL BREATHING. From this 
black void appears DARTH VADER, LORD OF THE SITH. Vader looks over the 
assemblage as he walks down the ramp.

JERJERROD
Lord Vader, this is an unexpected pleasure. We're honored by your 
presence.

VADER
You may dispense with the pleasantries, Commander. I'm here to put you 
back on
schedule.

The commander turns ashen and begins to shake.

JERJERROD
I assure you, Lord Vader, my men are working as fast as they can.

VADER
Perhaps I can find new ways to motivate them.

JERJERROD
I tell you, this station will be operational as planned.

VADER
The Emperor does not share your optimistic appraisal of the situation.

JERJERROD
But he asks the impossible. I need more men.

VADER
Then perhaps you can tell him when he arrives.

JERJERROD	 (aghast)
The Emperor's coming here?

VADER
That is correct, Commander. And he is most displeased with your 
apparent lack of progress.

JERJERROD
We shall double our efforts.

VADER
I hope so, Commander, for your sake. The Emperor is not as forgiving as 
I am.

5    EXT ROAD TO JABBA'S PALACE - TATOOINE

A lonely, windswept road meanders through the desolate Tatooine 
terrain. We HEAR a familiar BEEPING and a distinctive reply before 
catching sight of ARTOO-DETOO and SEE-THREEPIO, making their way along 
the road toward the ominous palace of Jabba the Hutt.

THREEPIO
Of course I'm worried. And you should be, too. Lando Calrissian and 
poor Chewbacca never returned from this awful place.

Artoo whistles timidly.

THREEPIO
Don't be so sure. If I told you half the things I've heard about this 
Jabba the Hutt, you'd probably short-circuit.

The two droids fearfully approach the massive gate to the palace.

THREEPIO
Artoo, are you sure this is the right place? I better knock, I suppose.

6    EXT JABBA'S PALACE - GATE 

Threepio looks around for some kind of signaling device, then timidly 
knocks on the iron door.

THREEPIO	 (instantly) 
There doesn't seem to be anyone there. Let's go back and tell Master 
Luke.

A small hatch in the middle of the door opens and a spidery mechanical 
arm, with a large electronic eyeball on the end, pops out and inspects 
the two droids.

STRANGE VOICE
Tee chuta hhat yudd!

THREEPIO
Goodness gracious me!

 Threepio points to Artoo, then to himself.

 THREEPIO
 Artoo Detoowha bo Seethreepiowha ey toota odd mischka Jabba du Hutt.

The eye looks from one robot to the other, there is a laugh then the 
eye zips back into the door. The hatch slams shut. Artoo beeps his 
concern.

THREEPIO
I don't think they're going to let us in, Artoo. We'd better go.

Artoo beeps his reluctance as Threepio turns to leave. Suddenly the 
massive door starts to rise with a horrific metallic SCREECH. The 
robots turn back and face an endless black cavity. The droids look at 
one another, afraid to enter.

Artoo starts forward into the gloom. Threepio rushes after his stubby 
companion. The door lowers noisily behind them.

THREEPIO 
Artoo, wait. Oh, dear! Artoo. Artoo, I really don't think we should 
rush into all this.

Artoo continues down the corridor, with Threepio following.

THREEPIO
Oh, Artoo!  Artoo, wait for me!

7    INT JABBA'S PALACE - HALLWAY

The door slams shut with a loud crash that echoes throughout the dark 
passageway. The frightened robots are met by two giant, green GAMORREAN 
GUARDS, who fall in behind them. Threepio glances quickly back at the 
two lumbering brutes, then back to Artoo. One guard grunts an order. 
Artoo beeps nervously.

THREEPIO
Just you deliver Master Luke's message and get us out of here. Oh my! 
Oh! Oh, no.

Walking toward them out of the darkness is BIB FORTUNA, a humanlike 
alien with long tentacles protruding from his skull.

BIB
Die Wanna Wanga!

THREEPIO
Oh, my! Die Wanna Wauaga. We -- we bring a message to your master, 
Jabba the Hutt.

Artoo lets out a series of quick beeps.

THREEPIO	 (cont)
...and a gift.
(thinks a moment, then to Artoo)
Gift, what gift?

Bib shakes his head negatively.

BIB
Nee Jabba no badda. Me chaade su goodie.

Bib holds out his hand toward Artoo and the tiny droid backs up a bit, 
letting out a protesting array of squeaks. Threepio turns to the 
strange-looking alien.

THREEPIO
He says that our instructions are to give it only to Jabba himself.

Bib thinks about this for a moment.

THREEPIO
I'm terribly sorry. I'm afraid he's ever so stubborn about these sort 
of things.

Bib gestures for the droids to follow.

BIB
Nudd Chaa.

The droids follow the tall, tentacled alien into the darkness, trailed 
by the two guards.

THREEPIO
Artoo, I have a bad feeling about this.

8    INT JABBA'S THRONE ROOM

The throne room is filled with the vilest, most grotesque CREATURES 
ever conceived in the universe. Artoo and Threepio seem very small as 
they pause in the doorway to the dimly lit chamber. Light shafts 
partially illuminate the drunken courtiers as Bib Fortuna crosses the 
room to the platform upon which rests the leader of this nauseating 
crowd: JABBA THE HUTT. The monarch of the galactic underworld is a 
repulsive blob of bloated fat with a maniacal grin. Chained to the 
horrible creature is the beautiful alien female dancer named OOLA. At 
the foot of the dais sits an obnoxious birdlike creature, SALACIOUS 
CRUMB. Bib whispers something in the slobbering degenerate's ear. Jabba 
laughs horribly, at the two terrified droids before him. Threepio bows 
politely.

THREEPIO
Good morning.

JABBA
Bo Shuda!

The robots jump forward to stand before the repulsive, loose-skinned 
villain.

THREEPIO
The message, Artoo, the message.

Artoo whistles, and a beam of light projects from his domed head, 
creating a hologram of LUKE on the floor. The image grows to over ten 
feet tall, and the young Jedi towers over the space gangsters.

LUKE
Greetings, Exalted One. Allow me to introduce myself. I am Luke 
Skywalker, Jedi Knight and friend to Captain Solo. I know that you are 
powerful, mighty Jabba, and that your anger with Solo must be equally 
powerful. I seek an audience with Your Greatness to bargain for Solo's 
life. 
(Jabba's crowd laughs) 
With your wisdom, I'm sure that we can work out an arrangement which 
will be mutually beneficial and enable us to avoid any unpleasant 
confrontation. As a token of my goodwill, I present to you a gift: 
these two droids.

Threepio is startled by this announcement.

THREEPIO
What did he say?

LUKE	 (cont)
... Both are hardworking and will serve you well.

THREEPIO
This can't be! Artoo, you're playing the wrong message.

Luke's hologram disappears.

Jabba laughs while Bib speaks to him in Huttese.

JABBA	 (in Huttese subtitled)
There will be no bargain.

THREEPIO
We're doomed.

JABBA	 (in Huttese subtitled)
I will not give up my favorite decoration. I like Captain Solo where he 
is.

Jabba laughs hideously and looks toward an alcove beside the throne. 
Hanging high, flat against the wall, exactly as we saw him last, is a 
carbonized HAN SOLO.

THREEPIO
Artoo, look! Captain Solo. And he's still frozen in carbonite.

9    INT DUNGEON CORRIDOR 

One of Jabba's Gamorrean guards marches Artoo and Threepio down a dank, 
shadowy passageway lined with holding cells. The cries of unspeakable 
creatures bounce off the cold stone walls. Occasionally a repulsive arm 
or tentacle grabs through the bars at the hapless droids. Artoo beeps 
pitifully.

THREEPIO
What could possibly have come over Master Luke. Is it something I did? 
He never expressed any unhappiness with my work. Oh! Oh! Hold it! Ohh!

A large tentacle wraps around Threepio's neck. He manages to break 
free, and they move on to a door at the end of the corridor.

10   INT BOILER ROOM

The door slides open, revealing a room filled with steam and noisy 
machinery. The guard motions them into the boiler room, where they are 
met by a tall, thin humanlike robot named EV-9D9. Behind the robot can 
be seen a torture rack pulling the legs off a screaming baby work 
droid. A second power droid is upside down.  As smoking branding irons 
are pressed into his feet, the stubby robot lets out an agonized 
electronic scream. Artoo and Threepio cringe as the guard grunts to EV-
9D9.

NINEDENINE
Ah, good. New acquisitions. You are a protocol droid, are you not?

THREEPIO
I am See-Threepio, human-cy...

NINEDENINE
Yes or no will do.

THREEPIO
Oh. Well, yes.

NINEDENINE
How many languages do you speak?

THREEPIO
I am fluent in over six million forms of communication, and can 
readily...

NINEDENINE
Splendid! We have been without an interpreter since our master got 
angry with our last protocol droid and disintegrated him.

THREEPIO
Disintegrated?

NINEDENINE	 (to a Gamorrean guard)
Guard! This protocol droid might be useful. Fit him with a restraining 
bolt and take him back to His Excellency's main audience chamber.

The guard shoves Threepio toward the door.

THREEPIO	 (disappearing)
Artoo, don't leave me! Ohhh!

Artoo lets out a plaintive cry as the door closes. Then he beeps 
angrily.

NINEDENINE
You're a feisty little one, but you'll soon learn some respect. I have 
need for you on the master's Sail Barge. And I think you'll fit in 
nicely.

The poor work droid in the background lets out another tortured 
electronic scream.

11   INT JABBA'S THRONE ROOM

The court of Jabba the Hutt is in the midst of a drunken, raucous 
party. Sloppy, smelly monsters cheer and make rude noises as Oola and a 
fat female dancer perform in front of Jabba's throne.

Jabba leers at the dancers and with a lustful gleam in his eye beckons 
Oola to come and sit with him. She stops dancing and backs away, 
shaking her head. Jabba gets angry and points to a spot next to him.

JABBA
Da Eitha!

The lovely alien shakes her head again and screams.

OOLA
Na Chuba negatorie Na! Na! Natoota...

Jabba is furious and pulls her toward him, tugging on the chain.

JABBA
Boscka!

He pushes a button and, before the dancer can flee, a trap door in the 
floor springs open and swallows her up. As the door snaps shut, a 
muffled growl is followed by a hideous scream. Jabba and his monstrous 
friends laugh hysterically and several revelers hurry over to watch her 
fate through a grate.

Threepio cringes and glances wistfully at the carbonite form of Han 
Solo, but is immediately distracted by a gunshot offscreen.√äAn 
unnatural quiet sweeps the boisterous gathering. On the far side of the 
room, the crush of debauchers moves aside to allow the approach of two 
guards followed by BOUSHH, an oddly cloaked bounty hunter, leading his 
captive, Han Solo's copilot, CHEWBACCA THE WOOKIEE.

Bib takes his place next to his disgusting master, and whispers into 
his ear, pointing at Chewbacca and the bounty hunter. Jabba listens 
intently, then the bounty hunter bows before the gangster and speaks a 
greeting in a strange, electronically processed tongue (Ubese).

BOUSHH	 (in Ubese subtitled)
I have come for the bounty on this Wookiee.

THREEPIO
Oh, no! Chewbacca!

JABBA	 (in Huttese subtitled)
At last we have the mighty Chewbacca.

Jabba lets out a loud, long, blood-curdling laugh and turns to 
Threepio, waving him closer. The reluctant droid obeys.

THREEPIO
Oh, uh, yes, uh, I am here, Your Worshipfulness. Uh... yes!

Jabba continues speaking, as Threepio nervously translates. Boushh 
listens, studying the dangerous creatures around the room. He notices 
BOBA FETT standing near the door.

THREEPIO
Oh. The illustrious Jabba bids you welcome and will gladly pay you the 
reward of twenty-five thousand.

BOUSHH	 (in Ubese subtitled)
I want fifty thousand. No less.

Jabba immediately flies into a rage, knocking the golden droid off the 
raised throne into a clattering heap on the floor. Boushh adjusts his 
weapon as Jabba raves in Huttese and Threepio struggles back onto the 
throne. The disheveled droid tries to compose himself.

THREEPIO
Uh, oh... but what, what did I say?
(to Boushh)
Uh, the mighty Jabba asks why he must pay fifty thousand.

The bounty hunter holds up a small silver ball in his hand. Threepio 
looks at it, then looks at Jabba, then back to the bounty hunter. The 
droid is very nervous and Jabba is getting very impatient.

THREEPIO
Because he's holding a thermal detonator.

The guards instantly back away, as do most of the other monsters in the 
room. Jabba stares at the silver ball, which begins to glow in the 
bounty hunter's hand. The room has fallen into a tense hush. Jabba 
stares at the bounty hunter malevolently until a sly grin creeps across 
his vast mouth and he begins to laugh.

JABBA	 (in Huttese subtitled)
This bounty hunter is my kind of scum. Fearless and inventive.

Jabba continues.

THREEPIO
Jabba offers the sum of thirty-five. And I suggest you take it.

Bib and the other monsters study the bounty hunter and wait for his 
reaction. Boushh releases a switch on the thermal detonator and it goes 
dead.

BOUSHH
Zeebuss.

THREEPIO
He agrees!

The raucous crowd of monsters erupts in a symphony of cheers and 
applause as the party returns to its full noisy pitch. Chewbacca 
growls. As he is led away we spot LANDO CALRISSIAN, disguised as a 
skiff guard in a partial face mask. The band starts up and dancing 
girls take the center of the floor, to the hoots of the loudly 
appreciative creatures.

Boushh leans against a column with gunfighter cool and surveys the 
scene, his gaze stopping only when it connects with a glare from across 
the room. Boba Fett is watching him. Boushh shifts slightly, cradling 
his weapon lovingly. Boba Fett shifts with equally ominous arrogance.

12   INT DUNGEON CORRIDOR AND CELL

Gamorrean guards lead Chewie down the same hallway we saw before. When 
a tentacle reaches out at the Wookiee, Chewie's ferocious ROAR echoes 
against the walls and the tentacle snaps back into its cell in terror. 
It takes all the guards to hurl Chewie roughly into a cell, slamming 
the door behind him. Chewie lets out a pathetic howl and bangs on the 
iron door.

13   EXT JABBA'S PALACE

The palace is sitting in the light of the double sunset. On the road in 
front, a large toadlike creature flicks its tongue out for a desert 
rodent and burps in satisfaction.

14   INT JABBA'S THRONE ROOM - NIGHT

Silence. The room is deserted, only the awful debris of the alien 
celebration giving mute witness to the activity here before. Several 
drunk creatures lie unconscious around the room, snoring loudly.

A shadowy figure moves stealthily among the columns at the perimeter of 
the room and is revealed to be Boushh, the bounty hunter. He picks his 
way carefully through the snoring, drunken monsters.

Han Solo, the frozen space pirate, hangs spotlighted on the wall, his 
coffin-like case suspended by a force field. The bounty hunter 
deactivates the force field by flipping a control switch to one side of 
the coffin. The heavy case slowly lowers to the floor of the alcove.

Boushh steps up to the case, studying Han, and then turns to the 
controls on the side of the coffin. He activates a series of switches 
and, after one last hesitant look at Han, slides the de-carbonization 
lever. The case begins to emit a sound as the hard shell covering the 
contours of Han's face begins to melt away. The bounty hunter watches 
as Han's body is freed of its metallic coat and his forearms and hands, 
previously raised in reflexive protest, drop slackly to his side. His 
face muscles relax from their mask of horror. He appears quite dead.

Boushh's ugly helmet leans close to Han's face listening for the breath 
of life. Nothing. He waits. Han's eyes pop open with a start and he 
begins coughing. The bounty hunter steadies the staggering newborn.

BOUSHH
Just relax for a moment. You're free of the carbonite.

Han touches his face with his hand and moans.

BOUSHH
Shhh. You have hibernation sickness.

HAN
I can't see.

BOUSHH
Your eyesight will return in time.

HAN
Where am I?

BOUSHH
Jabba's palace.

HAN
Who are you?

The bounty hunter reaches up and lifts the helmet from his head, 
revealing the beautiful face of PRINCESS LEIA.

LEIA
Someone who loves you.

HAN
Leia!

LEIA
I gotta get you out of here.

As Leia helps her weakened lover to stand up, the relative quiet is 
pierced by an obscene HUTTESE CACKLE from the other side of the alcove.

HAN
What's that? I know that laugh.

The curtain on the far side of the alcove opens, revealing Jabba the 
Hutt, surrounded by Bib and other aliens. He laughs again, and his 
gross cronies join in a cacophony of alien glee.

HAN
Hey, Jabba. Look, Jabba, I was just on my way to pay you back, but I 
got a little sidetracked. It's not my fault.

Jabba laughs.

JABBA	 (in Huttese subtitled)
It's too late for that, Solo. You may have been a good smuggler, but 
now you're Bantha fodder.

HAN
Look...

JABBA	 (cont Huttese subtitled)
Take him away!

The guards grab Han and start to lead him away.

HAN
Jabba... I'll pay you triple! You're throwing away a fortune here. 
Don't be a fool!

Han is dragged off, as Lando quickly moves forward and attempts to lead 
Leia away.

JABBA	 (in Huttese subtitled)
Bring her to me.

Jabba chuckles as Lando and a second guard drag the beautiful young 
princess toward him. Threepio peeks from behind a monster and quickly 
turns away in disgust.

LEIA
We have powerful friends. You're gonna regret this...

JABBA	 (in Huttese subtitled)
I'm sure.

Inexorably her lovely face moves to within a few inches of Jabba's ugly 
blob of a head, and Leia turns away in disgust.

LEIA
Ugh!

THREEPIO
Ohhh, I can't bear to watch.

15   INT DUNGEON CELL

The heavy metal door of the dungeon whines and slowly creaks open. A 
guard throws the blinded star captain into the dark cell and the door 
slams shut behind him, leaving only a thin sliver of light from a crack 
in the door. Han is trying to collect himself when suddenly a growl is 
heard from the far side of the cell. He jumps back against the cell 
door and listens.

HAN
Chewie? Chewie, is that you?

The shadowy figure lets out a crazy yell and races toward Han, lifting 
him off the ground with a big hug that carries them into the light, 
revealing Chewie.

HAN
Ah! Chew--Chewie!

The giant Wookiee barks with glee.

HAN
Wait. I can't see, pal. What's goin' on?

Chewie barks an excited blue streak.

HAN
Luke? Luke's crazy. He can't even take care of himself, much less 
rescue anybody.

Chewie barks a reply.

HAN
A...Jedi Knight? I--I'm out of it for a little while, everybody gets 
delusions of grandeur.

Chewie growls insistently. He holds Han to his chest and pets his head.

HAN
I'm all right, pal. I'm all right.

16   INT MAIN GATE AND HALL - JABBA'S PALACE

Noisily, the main gate lifts to flood the blackness with blinding LIGHT 
and reveal the silhouetted figure of LUKE SKYWALKER. He is clad in a 
robe similar to Ben's and wears neither pistol nor laser sword. Luke 
strides purposefully into the hallway. Two giant guards move to block 
Luke's path. Luke halts.

Luke raises his hand and points at the puzzled guards, who immediately 
lower their spears and fall back. The young Jedi lowers his hand and 
moves on down the hallway.

Bib Fortuna appears out of the gloom. He speaks to Luke as they 
approach each other, but Luke doesn't stop and Bib must reverse his 
direction and hurry alongside the young Jedi in order to carry on the 
conversation. Several other guards fall in behind them in the darkness.

LUKE
I must speak with Jabba.

Bib answers in Huttese, shaking his head in denial. Luke stops and 
stares at Bib; he raises his hand slightly.

LUKE
You will take me to Jabba now!

Bib turns in hypnotic response to Luke's command, and Luke follows him 
into the gloom.

LUKE
You serve your master well.

Bib responds.

LUKE
And you will be rewarded.

17   INT JABBA'S THRONE ROOM

Jabba is asleep on his throne, with Leia lying in front of him. 
Salacious sits by Jabba's tail, watching it wriggle. Leia is now 
dressed in the skimpy costume of a dancing girl; a chain runs from a 
manacle/necklace at her throat to her new master, Jabba the Hutt. 
Threepio stands behind Jabba as Bib comes up to the gangster slug.

THREEPIO
At last! Master Luke's come to rescue me.

BIB
Master.

Jabba awakens with a start and Bib continues, in Huttese.

BIB
...Luke Skywalker, Jedi Knight.

JABBA	 (in Huttese subtitled)
I told you not to admit him.

LUKE
I must be allowed to speak.

BIB	 (in Huttese subtitled)
He must be allowed to speak.

Jabba, furious, clobbers Bib and shoves him away.

JABBA	 (in Huttese subtitled)
You weak-minded fool! He's using an old Jedi mind trick.

Luke stares hard at Jabba.

LUKE
You will bring Captain Solo and the Wookiee to me.

JABBA	 (in Huttese subtitled)
Your mind powers will not work on me, boy.

LUKE
Nevertheless, I'm taking Captain Solo and his friends. You can either 
profit by this... or be destroyed! It's your choice. But I warn you not 
to underestimate my powers.

Jabba's laugh is mean and loud. Threepio attempts to warn Luke about 
the pit.

THREEPIO
Master Luke, you're standing on...

JABBA	 (in Huttese subtitled)
There will be no bargain, young Jedi. I shall enjoy watching you die.

Luke reaches out, and a pistol jumps out of a guard's holster and flies 
into Luke's hand. The bewildered guard grabs for it as Jabba raises his 
hand.

JABBA
Bascka!

The floor suddenly drops away, sending Luke and the hapless guard into 
the pit. The pistol goes off, blasting a hole in the ceiling. Jabba 
laughs and his courtiers join in. Leia starts forward but is restrained 
by a human guard-- Lando, recognizable behind his mask. She looks at 
him and he shakes his head "no."

18   INT RANCOR PIT

Luke and the guard have dropped twenty-five feet from a chute into the 
dungeonlike cage. Luke gets to his feet as the guard yells hysterically 
for help. A crowd gathers up around the edge of the pit as the door in 
the side of the pit starts to RUMBLE open. The guard screams in panic. 
Luke looks calmly around for a means of escape.

THREEPIO
Oh, no! The Rancor!

At the side of the pit, an iron door rumbles upward and a giant, fanged 
RANCOR emerges. The guard runs to the side of the pit and tries 
futilely to scramble to the top. The hideous beast closes in on him.

The Rancor moves past Luke, and as the guard continues to scramble, the 
Rancor picks him up and pops him into its slavering jaws. A few 
screams, and the guard is swallowed with a gulp. The audience cheers 
and laughs at the guard's fate.

The monster turns and starts for Luke. The young Jedi dashes away just 
ahead of the monster's swipe at him, and picks up the long arm bone of 
an earlier victim. The monster grabs Luke and brings him up to his 
salivating mouth. At the last moment, Luke wedges the bone in the 
monster's mouth and is dropped to the floor. The monster bellows in 
rage and flails about, hitting the side of the pit, causing an 
avalanche.

The monster crushes the bone in its jaws and sees Luke, who squeezes 
into a crevice in the pit wall. Luke looks past the monster to the 
holding cave beyond. On the far side of the holding cave is a utility 
door--if only he can get to it. The Rancor spots Luke and reaches into 
the crevice for him. Luke grabs a large rock and raises it, smashing it 
down on the Rancor's finger.

19   HOLDING TUNNEL - RANCOR PIT

The Rancor lets out a loud howl as Luke makes a run for the holding 
cave. He reaches the door and pushes a button to open it. When he 
succeeds, he sees a heavy barred gate between him and safety. Beyond 
the gate two guards look up from their dinner. Luke turns to see the 
monster heading for him, and pulls with all his might on the gate. The 
guards move to the gate and start poking at the young Jedi with spears, 
laughing.

Luke crouches (against the wall) as the monster starts to reach for 
him. Suddenly he notices a main door control panel halfway up the wall. 
As the Rancor moves in for the kill, Luke picks up a skull from the 
cave floor and hurls it at the panel. The giant overhead door comes 
crashing down on the beast's head, squashing it like a sledgehammer on 
an egg.

A startled gasp is heard from the stunned court. There's consternation 
at this turn of events. Heads look to Jabba, who is actually turning 
red with anger. Leia cannot suppress her joy. Jabba utters harsh 
commands to his guards and they hurry off.

JABBA	 (in Huttese subtitled)
Bring me Solo and the Wookiee. They will all suffer for this outrage.

21   INT RANCOR PIT

The Rancor KEEPERS have come into the cage and are examining their dead 
beast. One of them breaks down and weeps. The other glares menacingly 
at Luke, who is unworried. Several guards rush into the holding tunnel 
and take Luke away.

22   INT THRONE ROOM

The crowd of creepy courtiers parts as Han and Chewie are brought into 
the throne room, and other guards drag Luke up the steps.

LUKE
Han!

HAN
Luke!

LUKE
Are you all right?

HAN
Fine. Together again, huh?

LUKE
Wouldn't miss it.

HAN
How are we doing?

LUKE
The same as always.

HAN
That bad, huh? Where's Leia?

Luke looks to Leia.

LEIA
I'm here.

Threepio is standing behind the grotesque gangster as he strokes Leia 
like a pet cat. Several of the guards, including Lando, bring Luke from 
the other side of the room. Boba is standing behind Jabba.

Threepio steps forward and translates for the captives.

THREEPIO
Oh, dear. His High Exaltedness, the great Jabba the Hutt, has decreed 
that you are to be terminated immediately.

HAN
Good, I hate long waits.

THREEPIO
You will therefore be taken to the Dune Sea and cast into the pit of 
Carkoon, the nesting place of the all-powerful Sarlacc.

HAN	 (to Luke)
Doesn't sound so bad.

THREEPIO
In his belly, you will find a new definition of pain and suffering, as 
you are slowly digested over a thousand years.

HAN
On second thought, let's pass on that, huh?

Chewie barks his agreement.

LUKE
You should have bargained, Jabba. That's the last mistake you'll ever 
make.

Jabba cackles evilly at this.

As the guards drag the prisoners from the throne room, a loud cheer 
rises from the crowd. Leia and Chewie exchange concerned looks, but 
Luke Skywalker, Jedi warrior, cannot suppress a smile.

23   EXT TATOOINE SEA - SKIFF

Jabba's huge SAIL BARGE moves above the desert surface accompanied by 
two smaller Skiffs. One of the skiffs glides close, revealing Luke, 
Han, and Chewie -- all in bonds -- surrounded by guards, one of whom is 
Lando in disguise.

HAN
I think my eyes are getting better. Instead of a big dark blur, I see a 
big light blur.

LUKE
There's nothing to see. I used to live here, you know.

HAN
You're gonna die here, you know. Convenient.

LUKE
Just stick close to Chewie and Lando. I've taken care of everything.

HAN
Oh... great!

24   INT BARGE OBSERVATION DECK

Jabba the Hutt rides like a sultan in the massive antigravity ship. His 
entire retinue is with him, drinking, eating, and having a good time. 
Leia is watching her friends in the skiff when the chain attached to 
her neck is pulled tight and Jabba tugs the scantily clad princess to 
him.

JABBA	 (in Huttese subtitled)
Soon you will learn to appreciate me.

Threepio wanders among the Sail Barge aliens, bumping into a smaller 
droid serving drinks, spilling them all over the place. The stubby 
droid lets out an angry series of beeps and whistles.

THREEPIO
Oh, I'm terribly sor... Artoo! What are you doing here?

Artoo beeps a quick reply.

THREEPIO
Well, I can see you're serving drinks, but this place is dangerous. 
They're going to execute Master Luke and, if we're not careful, us too!

Artoo whistles a singsong response.

THREEPIO
Hmm.  I wish I had your confidence.

25   EXT SARLACC PIT 

The convoy moves up over a huge sand pit. The Sail Barge stops to one 
side of the depression, as does the escort skiff. But the prisoner's 
skiff moves out directly over the center and hovers. At the bottom of 
the deep cone of sand is a repulsive, mucous-lined hole, surrounded by 
thousands of needle-sharp teeth. This is the SARLACC. A plank is 
extended from the edge of the prisoner's skiff. Guards release Luke's 
bonds and shove him out onto the plank above the Sarlacc's mouth.

26   EXT SAIL BARGE OBSERVATION DECK

Jabba and Leia are now by the rail, watching. Threepio leans forward 
and the slobbering villain mumbles something to him. As Threepio steps 
up to a comlink, Jabba raises his arm and the motley array of 
intergalactic pirates fall silent. Threepio's voice is amplified across 
loudspeakers.

THREEPIO
Victims of the almighty Sarlacc: His Excellency hopes that you will die 
honorably. But should any of you wish to beg for mercy, the great Jabba 
the Hutt will now listen to your pleas.

27   EXT SKIFF

Han steps forward arrogantly and begins to speak.

HAN
Threepio, you tell that slimy piece of... worm-ridden filth he'll get 
no such pleasure from us. Right?

Chewie growls his agreement.

LUKE
Jabba! This is your last chance. Free us or die.

Lando moves unobtrusively along the skiff as Luke shoots a quick look 
of conspiracy to him.

28   INT SAIL BARGE OBSERVATION DECK

The assembled monsters rock with mocking laughter as Artoo zips 
unnoticed up the ramp to the upper deck. Jabba's laughter subsides as 
he speaks into the comlink.

JABBA	 (in Huttese subtitled)
Move him into position.

Jabba makes a thumbs-down gesture. Leia looks worried.

29   EXT BARGE - UPPER DECK

Artoo appears from below and zips over to the rail facing the pit. 
Below, in the skiff, Luke is prodded by a guard to the edge of the 
plank over the gaping Sarlacc. Luke looks up at Artoo, then gives a 
jaunty salute: the signal the little droid has been waiting for. A flap 
opens in Artoo's domed head.

JABBA	 (in Huttese subtitled)
Put him in.

30   EXT SKIFF - PLANK

Luke is prodded and jumps off the plank to the cheers of the 
bloodthirsty spectators. But, before anyone can even perceive what is 
happening, he spins around and grabs the end of the plank by his 
fingertips. The plank bends wildly from his weight and catapults him 
skyward. In midair he does a complete flip and drops down on the end of 
the plank in the same spot he just vacated, but facing the skiff. He 
casually extends an open palm and -- his lightsaber, which Artoo has 
sent arcing toward him, drops into his hand.

With samurai speed, Luke ignites it and attacks the guard who prodded 
him off the plank, sending the hapless monster screaming overboard. The 
other guards swarm toward Luke. He wades into them, lightsaber 
flashing. Lando struggles with another guard at the back of the skiff.

31   EXT SARLACC PIT

A bewildered guard lands in the soft, sandy slope of the pit, and 
begins sliding. He claws desperately as a Sarlacc tentacle grabs him 
and pulls him screaming into the viscous mouth.

32   INT SAIL BARGE

Jabba watches this and explodes in rage. He barks commands, and the 
guards around him rush off to do his bidding. The scuzzy creatures 
watching the action from the window are in an uproar.

33   EXT SKIFF 

Luke knocks another guard off the skiff and into the waiting mouth of 
the Sarlacc. He starts to untie Chewie's bonds.

LUKE
Easy, Chewie.

At that moment, the deck gunmen on the barge unleash a series of blasts 
from a big cannon on the upper deck. Lando is tossed from the deck of 
the rocking skiff. He manages to grab a rope, and dangles desperately 
above the Sarlacc pit.

LANDO
Whoa! Whoa! Help!

34   EXT UPPER DECK - SAIL BARGE

With two swift strides, the dangerous Boba Fett ignites his rocket 
pack, leaps into the air, and flies from the barge down to the skiff.

35   EXT SKIFF

Boba lands on the skiff and starts to aim his laser gun at Luke, who 
has freed Han and Chewie from their bonds. But before Boba can fire, 
the young Jedi spins on him, lightsaber sweeping, and hacks the bounty 
hunter's gun in half.

Immediately, the skiff takes another direct hit from the barge's deck 
gun. Shards of skiff deck fly. Chewie and Han are thrown against the 
rail.

HAN
Chewie, you okay? Where is he?

The Wookiee is wounded and he howls in pain.

HAN
I'm okay, pal.

For a moment, Luke is distracted, and in that moment, Boba fires a 
cable out of his armored sleeve. Instantly, Luke is wrapped in a strong 
cable, his arms pinned against his side, his sword arm free only from 
the wrist down.  Luke bends his wrist so the lightsaber points straight 
up to reach the wire lasso and cuts through. Luke shrugs away the cable 
and stands free.

Another blast from the Barge's deck gun hits near Boba and he is 
knocked unconscious to the deck, next to where Lando is hanging.

LANDO
Han! Chewie?

HAN
Lando!

Luke is a little shaken but remains standing as a fusillade brackets 
him. The second skiff, loaded with guards firing their weapons, moves 
in on Luke fast. Luke leaps toward the incoming second skiff. The young 
Jedi leaps into the middle of the second skiff and begins decimating 
the guards from their midst.

Chewie, wounded, tries to lift himself as he barks directions to Han, 
guiding him toward a spear which has been dropped by one of the guards. 
Han searches the deck as Chewie barks directions; finally he grabs hold 
of the spear.

Boba Fett, badly shaken, rises from the deck. He looks over at the 
other skiff, where Luke is whipping a mass of guards. Boba raises his 
arm, and aims his lethal appendage.

Chewie barks desperately at Han.

HAN
Boba Fett?! Boba Fett?! Where?

The space pirate turns around blindly, and the long spear in his hand 
whacks squarely in the middle of Boba's rocket pack.

The impact of the swing causes the rocket pack to ignite. Boba blasts 
off, flying over the second skiff like a missile, smashing against the 
side of the huge Sail Barge and sliding away into the pit. He screams 
as his armored body makes its last flight past Lando and directly into 
the mucous mouth of the Sarlacc. The Sarlacc burps. Chewie growls a 
weak congratulations to Han.

36   INT SAIL BARGE

Leia turns from the spectacle outside, leaps onto Jabba's throne, and 
throws the chain that enslaves her over his head around his bulbous 
neck. Then she dives off the other side of the throne, pulling the 
chain violently in her grasp. Jabba's flaccid neck contracts beneath 
the tightening chain. His huge eyes bulge from their sockets and his 
scum-coated tongue flops out. The Exalted Hutt's huge tail spasms 
through its death throes and then slams down into final stillness. Leia 
struggles to free herself of her bondage.

37   EXT SKIFF

Luke continues to destroy the aliens on the guards' skiff, as Han 
extends his spear downward to Lando, who is still dangling precariously 
from a rope on the prisoner's skiff.

HAN
Lando, grab it!

LANDO
Lower it!

HAN
I'm trying!

A major hit from the barge deck gun knocks the skiff on its side. Han 
and almost everything else on board slides overboard. The rope breaks, 
and Lando falls to the side of the Sarlacc pit. Luckily, Han's foot 
catches on the skiff railing and he dangles above Lando and the pit. 
The wounded Wookiee holds onto the skiff for dear life as another hit 
from the deck gun rocks the skiff violently.

HAN
Whoa! Whoa! Grab me, Chewie! I'm slipping.

Chewie grabs hold of Han's feet, holding him upside down, as Han 
extends the spear toward Lando, who is clutching to the side of the 
pit.

HAN
Grab it! L--Lando. Grab!

Luke finishes off the last guard on the second skiff. He sees the deck 
gun blasting away at his helpless companions. Luke leaps from the 
skiff, across a chasm of air, to the sheer metallic side of the Sail 
Barge. Barely able to get a fingerhold, he begins a painful climb up 
the hull, when suddenly an ax smashes through a window an inch from his 
head. With Jedi agility, Luke grasps the wrist holding the ax and yanks 
the helpless guard through the broken window and into the deadly pit.

The injured Chewie is reaching over the rail for the dangling Han, who 
is in turn blindly reaching down toward the desperate Lando. The Baron 
has stopped his slippage down the sandy slope of the Sarlacc pit by 
lying very still. Every time he tries to reach for Han, the loose sand 
moves him closer to his final reward.

HAN
Grab it! Almost... You almost got it!

Another blast hits the front of the tilted skiff, causing Lando to let 
go of the spear.

LANDO
Hold it! Whoa!

Again Han extends the spear toward Lando.

HAN
Gently now. All... all right. Now easy, easy. Hold me, Chewie.

Lando screams. One of the Sarlacc's tentacles has wrapped tightly 
around his ankle, dragging him down the side of the pit.

HAN
Chewie! Chewie, give me the gun. Don't move, Lando.

LANDO
No, wait! I thought you were blind!

HAN
It's all right. Trust me. Don't move.

LANDO
All right! A little higher! Just a little higher!

Han adjusts his aim as Lando lowers his head, and the fuzzy-eyed pirate 
fires at the tentacle. Direct hit. The tentacle releases Lando, and 
Chewie starts to pull them on board the skiff.

HAN
Chewie, Pull us up! Come on! Okay... up, Chewie, up!

38   EXT UPPER DECK

The deck gunners have Chewie and the desperate dangling human chain in 
their gun sights when something up on deck commands their attention: 
Luke, standing before them like a pirate king, ignites his lightsaber. 
The deck gunners have barely reached for their pistols before the young 
Jedi has demolished them. Immediately, Luke turns to see two more 
gunners (who have been uncovering a giant gun at the end of the barge) 
racing for him, firing their laser pistols.

39   INT SAIL BARGE - OBSERVATION DECK

Leia is struggling against her chains in desperation as Artoo zips 
through the tumult of confused monsters to the rescue; the stubby 
little droid extends a small laser gun and blasts the chain apart.

LEIA
Come on. We gotta get out of here quick.

Artoo and Leia race for the exit, passing Threepio, who is kicking and 
screaming as Salacious Crumb, the reptilian monkey- monster picks out 
one of the golden droid's eyes.

THREEPIO
Not my eyes! Artoo, help! Quickly, Artoo. Oh! Ohhh! You beast!

Artoo zips over and zaps Salacious, sending him skyward with a scream, 
crashing into the rafters as Artoo, Leia, and Threepio (with his eye 
dangling from a wire) hurry off.

40   EXT UPPER DECK - SAIL BARGE

Luke is warding off laser blasts with his lightsaber, surrounded by 
guards and fighting like a demon. Leia emerges onto the deck as Luke 
turns to face another guard.

LUKE	 (to Leia)
Get the gun! Point it at the deck!

Leia turns toward the barge cannon, climbs on the platform, and swivels 
the gun around.

LUKE
Point it at the deck!

A laser blast hits Luke's mechanical hand and he bends over in pain, 
but manages to swing his lightsaber upward and take out the last of the 
guards. He looks at the wounded hand, which reveals the mechanism. He 
flexes the hand; it still works.

Near the rail of the upper deck, Artoo and Threepio steady themselves 
as Threepio gets ready to jump. Artoo beeps wildly.

THREEPIO
Artoo, where are we going? I couldn't possibly jump.

Artoo butts the golden droid over the edge and steps off himself, 
tumbling toward the sand.

Luke runs along the empty deck toward Leia and the barge gun, which she 
has brought around to point down at the deck.

LUKE
Come on!

Luke has hold on one of the rigging ropes from the mast. He gathers 
Leia in his other arm and kicks the trigger of the deck gun. The gun 
explodes into the deck as Luke and Leia swing out toward the skiff.

41   EXT SKIFF  

Han leans panting against the rail as Chewie helps Lando onto the deck. 
Luke and Leia land on the skiff with flair.

LUKE
Let's go! And don't forget the droids.

LANDO
We're on our way.

The Sail Barge is exploding in stages in the distance. Half of the huge 
craft is on fire.

42   EXT SAND DUNE

Threepio's legs stick straight up from the dune where he landed. Next 
to it, Artoo's periscope is the only thing above the sand. The skiff 
floats above them and two large electromagnets dangle down on a wire. 
With a loud CLANG, both droids are pulled 
from the sand.

43   EXT DUNE SEA

The little skiff skips around the burning Sail Barge, which continues 
its chain of explosions. As the skiff sails off across the desert, the 
barge settles to the sand and disappears in one final conflagration.

44   EXT DUNE SEA - LANDING AREA

A ferocious sandstorm blocks our view. Then, through the ROAR, we HEAR 
THE VOICES of our heroes. They emerge slowly from the veil of sand, 
pressing on against the wind. First come Artoo and Threepio, followed 
by Leia guiding Han, then Luke and Lando come into view, each 
supporting one side of the towering Chewbacca, who hobbles from his 
wound.

Soon, they can make out some large vague shapes in the blowing sand. It 
is the Millennium Falcon and, parked beside it, Luke's trusty X-wing 
and a two-seated Y-wing. They must shout to be heard.

HAN
I don't know. All I can see is a lot of blowing sand!

LEIA
That's all any of us can see.

HAN	 (blinking)
Then I guess I'm getting better.

As soon as the group huddles under the bulk of the Falcon, the wind 
dies down to something more describable as a severe weather condition. 
Threepio hits a switch, and the gang-plank lowers with a HUM.

HAN 	(turning to Luke)
I've got to hand it to you, kid, you were pretty good out there.

LUKE	 (shrugging it off)
I had a lot of help. Think nothing of it.

HAN
No, I'm thinking a lot about it. That carbon freeze was the closest 
thing to dead there is. And it wasn't just sleepin'. It was a big wide 
awake nothing!

Luke nods, as Chewie growls affectionately at the young Jedi warrior, 
mussing his hair like a proud uncle. And Leia warmly hugs him.

LUKE 	(moving to his ship)
I'll see you back at the fleet.

HAN
Why don't you leave that crate and come with us?

LUKE
I have a promise I have to keep first... to an old friend.

Luke and Artoo take off in their spacecraft.

HAN		
(looking dubiously at Lando, obviously remembering his friend's 
betrayal and subsequent aide)
Guess I owe you some thanks, too, Lando.

LANDO
Figured if I left you frozen like that you'd just give me bad luck the 
rest of my life, so I might as well get you unfrozen sooner or later.

LEIA
He means "You're welcome."

LANDO
Come on, let's get off this miserable dust ball.

44A  EXT SPACE ABOVE TATOOINE 

The desolate yellow planet fills the screen, Luke's X-wing appears and 
peels off to the left. A moment later, the FALCON appears as a dot and 
grows huge, to roar directly over the CAMERA.

45   INT X-WING - COCKPIT

Luke is at the controls, with Artoo attached behind him outside the 
canopy. Luke speaks into his comlink to the others, in the MILLENNIUM 
FALCON.

LUKE
I'll meet you back at the fleet.

LEIA	 (over comlink)
Hurry. The Alliance should be assembled by now.

LUKE
I will.

HAN	 (over comlink)
Hey, Luke, thanks. Thanks for comin' after me. Now I owe you one.

A message from Artoo appears on the small monitor screen in front of 
Luke. He smiles at the monitor and speaks to Artoo, as he pulls a black 
glove on to cover his wounded mechanical hand.

LUKE
That's right, Artoo. We're going to the Dagobah system. I have a 
promise to keep... to an old friend.

46   EXT SPACE - DEATH STAR AND ENDOR

A Super Star Destroyer and several ships of the Imperial Fleet rest in 
space above the half-completed Death Star and its green neighbor, 
Endor. Four squads of TIE fighters escort an Imperial shuttle toward 
the Death Star.

47   INT DEATH STAR - CORRIDOR TO DOCKING BAY

Lord Vader strides down the hallway, accompanied by a very nervous 
Death Star commander.

48   INT DOCKING BAY - DEATH STAR

Thousands of Imperial troops in tight formation fill the mammoth 
docking bay. Vader and the officer walk to the landing platform, where 
the shuttle is coming to rest.

The shuttle's ramp lowers and the Emperor's Royal Guards come out and 
create a lethal perimeter. The assembled troops move to rigid attention 
with a momentous SNAP.

Then, in the huge SILENCE which follows, the EMPEROR appears. He is a 
rather small, shriveled old man. His bent frame slowly makes its way 
down the ramp with the aid of a gnarled cane. He wears a hooded cloak 
similar to the one Ben wears, except that it is black. The Emperor's 
face is shrouded and difficult to see, except for his piercing yellow 
eyes. Commander Jerjerrod and Darth Vader kneel to him. The Supreme 
Ruler of the galaxy beckons to the Dark Lord.

EMPEROR	 (to Vader)
Rise, my friend.

Vader rises and falls in next to the Emperor as he slowly makes his way 
along the rows of troops. Jerjerrod and the other commanders stay 
kneeling until the Supreme Ruler and Vader, followed by several 
Imperial dignitaries, pass by; only then do they join in the 
procession.

VADER
The Death Star will be completed on schedule.

EMPEROR
You have done well, Lord Vader. And now I sense you wish to continue 
your search for young Skywalker.

VADER
Yes, my Master.

EMPEROR
Patience, my friend. In time he will seek you out. And when he does, 
you must bring him
before me. He has grown strong. Only together can we turn him to the 
dark side of the
Force.

VADER
As you wish.

EMPEROR
Everything is proceeding as I have foreseen.

He laughs to himself as they pass along the vast line of Imperial 
troops.

49   EXT YODA'S HOUSE - DAGOBAH

Once again, Artoo finds himself waiting around in the damp environs of 
the swamp planet, and he's none too happy about it. He beeps 
disconsolately to himself and turns to look at Yoda's cottage. Warm 
yellow light escapes the oddly shaped windows to fight the gloom.

50   INT YODA'S HOUSE

The tip of a walking stick taps hesitantly across the earthen floor of 
the cottage. Our view travels up the stick to the small green hand that 
clutches it, and then to the familiar face of YODA, THE JEDI MASTER. 
His manner is frail, and his voice, though cheerful, seems weaker.

YODA
Hmm. That face you make. Look I so old to young eyes?

Luke is sitting in a corner of the cramped space and, indeed, his look 
has been woeful. Caught, he tries to hide it.

LUKE
No... of course not.

YODA	 (tickled, chuckles)
I do, yes, I do!  Sick have I become. Old and weak. 
(Points a crooked finger)
When nine hundred years old you reach, look as good you will not. Hmm?

Yoda chuckles at this, coughs, and hobbles over toward his bed.

YODA
Soon will I rest. Yes, forever sleep. Earned it, I have.

Yoda sits himself on his bed, with great effort.

LUKE
Master Yoda, you can't die.

YODA
Strong am I with the Force... but not that strong! Twilight is upon me 
and soon night must fall. That is the way of things... the way of the 
Force.

LUKE
But I need your help. I've come back to complete the training.

YODA
No more training do you require. Already know you that which you need.

Yoda sighs, and lies back on his bed.

LUKE
Then I am a Jedi?

YODA	 (shakes his head)
Ohhh. Not yet. One thing remains: Vader. You must confront Vader. Then, 
only then, a Jedi will you be. And confront him you will.

Luke is in agony. He is silent for a long moment, screwing up his 
courage. Finally he is able to ask.

LUKE
Master Yoda... is Darth Vader my father?

Yoda's eyes are full of weariness and compassion. An odd, sad smile 
creases his face. He turns painfully on his side, away from Luke.

YODA
Mmm... rest I need. Yes... rest.

Luke watches him, each moment an eternity.

LUKE
Yoda, I must know.

YODA
Your father he is.

Luke reacts as if cut.

YODA
Told you, did he?

LUKE
Yes.

A new look of concern crosses Yoda's face.  He closes his eyes.

YODA
Unexpected this is, and unfortunate...

LUKE
Unfortunate that I know the truth?

Yoda opens his eyes again and studies the youth.

YODA		 (gathering all his strength)
No. Unfortunate that you rushed to face him... that incomplete was your 
training. Not
ready for the burden were you.

LUKE
Well, I'm sorry.

YODA
Remember, a Jedi's strength flows from the Force.  But beware.  Anger, 
fear, aggression.
The dark side are they.  Once you start down the dark path, forever 
will it dominate your
destiny.

He beckons the young Jedi closer to him.

YODA
Luke...Luke...Do not...Do not underestimate the powers of the Emperor, 
or suffer your father's fate, you will. Luke, when gone am I
(cough),
the last of the Jedi will you be. Luke, the Force runs strong in your 
family. Pass on what you have learned, Luke... 
(with great effort)
There is...another...Sky...Sky...walker.

He catches his breath. A shiver runs through the ancient green 
creature, and he dies. Luke stares at his dead master as he disappears 
in front of his eyes.

51   EXT DAGOBAH SWAMP - X-WING 

Luke wanders back to where his ship is sitting. Artoo beeps a greeting, 
but is ignored by his depressed master. Luke kneels down, begins to 
help Artoo with the ship, then stops and shakes his head dejectedly.

LUKE
I can't do it, Artoo. I can't go on alone.

BEN	 (OS)
Yoda will always be with you.

Luke looks up to see the shimmering image of BEN KENOBI.

LUKE
Obi-Wan! Why didn't you tell me?

The ghost of Ben Kenobi approaches him through the swamp.

LUKE
You told me Vader betrayed and murdered my father.

BEN
You father was seduced by the dark side of the Force. He ceased to be 
Anakin Skywalker
and became Darth Vader. When that happened, the good man who was your 
father was destroyed. So what I have told you was true... from a 
certain point of view.

LUKE	 (turning away, derisive)
A certain point of view!

BEN
Luke, you're going to find that many of the truths we cling to depend 
greatly on our own
point of view.

Luke is unresponsive. Ben studies him in silence for a moment.

BEN
I don't blame you for being angry. If I was wrong in what I did, it 
certainly wouldn't have been for the first time. You see, what happened 
to your father was my fault.

Ben pauses sadly.

BEN
Anakin was a good friend.

Luke turns with interest at this. As Ben speaks, Luke settles on a 
stump, mesmerized. Artoo comes over to offer his comforting presence.

BEN
When I first knew him, your father was already a great pilot. But I was 
amazed how strongly the Force was with him. I took it upon myself to 
train him as a Jedi. I thought that I could instruct him just as well 
as Yoda. I was wrong. My pride has had terrible consequences for the 
galaxy.

Luke is entranced.

LUKE
There's still good in him.

BEN
I also thought he could be turned back to the good side. It couldn't be 
done. He is more machine now than man. Twisted and evil.

LUKE
I can't do it, Ben.

BEN
You cannot escape your destiny.

LUKE
I tried to stop him once. I couldn't do it.

BEN
Vader humbled you when first you met him, Luke... but that experience 
was part of your training. It taught you, among other things, the value 
of patience. Had you not been so impatient to defeat Vader then, you 
could have finished your training here with Yoda. You would have been 
prepared.

LUKE
But I had to help my friends.

BEN	 (grinning at Luke's indignation)
And did you help them? It was they who had to save you. You achieved 
little by rushing back prematurely, I fear.

LUKE	 (with sadness)
I found out Darth Vader was my father.

BEN
To be a Jedi, Luke, you must confront and then go beyond the dark side 
- the side your father couldn't get past. Impatience is the easiest 
door - for you, like your father. Only, your father was seduced by what 
he found on the other side of the door, and you have held firm. You're 
no longer so reckless now, Luke. You are strong and patient. And now, 
you must face Darth Vader again!

LUKE
I can't kill my own father.

BEN
Then the Emperor has already won. You were our only hope.

LUKE
Yoda spoke of another.

BEN
The other he spoke of is your twin sister.

LUKE
But I have no sister.

BEN
Hmm. To protect you both from the Emperor, you were hidden from your 
father when you were born. The Emperor knew, as I did, if Anakin were 
to have any offspring, they would be a threat to him. That is the 
reason why your sister remains safely anonymous.

LUKE
Leia! Leia's my sister.

BEN
Your insight serves you well. Bury your feelings deep down, Luke. They 
do you credit.
But they could be made to serve the Emperor.

Luke looks into the distance, trying to comprehend all this.

BEN	 (continuing his narrative)
When your father left, he didn't know your mother was pregnant. Your 
mother and I knew he would find out eventually, but we wanted to keep 
you both as safe as possible, for as long as possible.  So I took you 
to live with my brother Owen on Tatooine... and your mother took Leia 
to live as the daughter of Senator Organa, on Alderaan.

Luke turns, and settles near Ben to hear the tale.

BEN	 (attempting to give solace with his words)
The Organa household was high-born and politically quite powerful in 
that system. Leia became a princess by virtue of lineage... no one knew 
she'd been adopted, of course. But it was a title without real power, 
since Alderaan had long been a democracy.  Even so, the family 
continued to be politically powerful, and Leia, following in her foster 
father's path, became a senator as well.  That's not all she became, of 
course... she became the leader of her cell in the Alliance against the 
corrupt Empire. And because she had diplomatic immunity, she was a 
vital link for getting information to the Rebel cause.  That's what she 
was doing when her path crossed yours... for her foster parents had 
always told her to contact me on Tatooine, if her troubles became 
desperate.

Luke is overwhelmed by the truth, and is suddenly protective of his 
sister.

LUKE
But you can't let her get involved now, Ben. Vader will destroy her.

BEN
She hasn't been trained in the ways of the Jedi the way you have, 
Luke... but the Force is strong with her, as it is with all of your 
family. There is no avoiding the battle. You must face and destroy 
Vader!

52   EXT SPACE - REBEL FLEET

The vast Rebel Fleet stretches as far as the eye can see. Overhead a 
dozen small Corellian battleships fly in formation. Fighters and 
battlecruisers surround the largest of the Rebel Star Cruisers, the 
HEADQUARTERS FRIGATE.

53   INT HEADQUARTERS FRIGATE - MAIN BRIEFING ROOM

Hundreds of Rebel commanders of all races and forms are assembled in 
the WAR ROOM. WEDGE is among them. In the center of the room is a 
holographic model depicting the half-completed Imperial Death Star, the 
nearby Moon of Endor, and the protecting deflector shield.

MON MOTHMA, the leader of the Alliance, enters the room. She is a stern 
but beautiful woman in her fifties. Conferring with her are several 
military leaders, including GENERAL MADINE and ADMIRAL ACKBAR (a 
salmon-colored Mon Calamari). Lando moves through the crowd until he 
finds Han and Chewie, standing next to Leia and the two droids.

Han peers at Lando's new insignia on his chest, and is amused.

HAN
Well, look at you, a general, huh?

 LANDO
 Oh, well, someone must have told them about my little maneuver at the 
battle of Taanab.

HAN	 (sarcastic)
Well, don't look at me, pal. I just said you were a fair pilot. I 
didn't know they were
lookin' for somebody to lead this crazy attack.

LANDO	 (smiling)
I'm surprised they didn't ask you to do it.

HAN
Well, who says they didn't.  But I ain't crazy. You're the respectable 
one, remember?

Mon Mothma signals for attention, and the room falls silent.

MON MOTHMA
The Emperor has made a critical error and the time for our attack has 
come.

This causes a stir. Mon Mothma turns to a holographic model of the 
Death Star, the Endor moon and the protecting deflector shield in the 
center of the room.

MON MOTHMA
The data brought to us by the Bothan spies pinpoints the exact location 
of the Emperor's new battle station. We also know that the weapon 
systems of this Death Star are not yet operational. With the Imperial 
Fleet spread throughout the galaxy in a vain effort to engage us, it is 
relatively unprotected. But most important of all, we've learned that 
the Emperor himself is personally overseeing the final stages of the 
construction of this Death Star.

A volley of spirited chatter erupts from the crowd. Han turns to Leia 
as Chewie barks his amazement.

MON MOTHMA	 (cont)
Many Bothans died to bring us this information. Admiral Ackbar, please.

Admiral Ackbar steps forward and points to the Death Star's force field 
and the Moon of Endor.

ACKBAR
You can see here the Death Star orbiting the forest Moon of Endor. 
Although the weapon
systems on this Death Star are not yet operational, the Death Star does 
have a strong defense mechanism. It is protected by an energy shield, 
which is generated from the nearby forest Moon of Endor. The shield 
must be deactivated if any attack is to be attempted. Once the shield 
is down, our cruisers will create a perimeter, while the fighters fly 
into the superstructure and attempt to knock out the main reactor.

There's a concerned murmur.

ACKBAR	 (cont)
General Calrissian has volunteered to lead the fighter attack

Han turns to Lando with a look of respect.

HAN
Good luck.

Lando nods his thanks.

HAN
You're gonna need it.

ACKBAR
General Madine.

Madine moves center stage.

GENERAL MADINE
We have stolen a small Imperial shuttle. Disguised as a cargo ship, and 
using a secret
Imperial code, a strike team will land on the moon and deactivate the 
shield generator.

The assembly begins to mumble among themselves.

THREEPIO
Sounds dangerous.

LEIA	 (to Han)
I wonder who they found to pull that off.

GENERAL MADINE
General Solo, is your strike team assembled?

Leia, startled, looks up at Han, surprise changing to admiration.

HAN
Uh, my team's ready. I don't have a command crew for the shuttle.

Chewbacca raises his hairy paw and volunteers.  Han looks up at him.

HAN
Well, it's gonna be rough, pal. I didn't want to speak for you.

Chewie waves that off with a huge GROWL.

HAN	 (smiles)
That's one.

LEIA
Uh, General... count me in.

VOICE	 (OS)
I'm with you, too!

They turn in that direction and peer into the crowd as there are more 
cheers. The commanders part, and there at the back stands Luke. Han and 
Leia are surprised and delighted.

Leia moves to Luke and embraces him warmly. She senses a change in him 
and looks into his eyes questioningly.

LEIA
 What is it?

LUKE	 (hesitant)
Ask me again sometime.

Han, Chewie, and Lando crowd around Luke as the assembly breaks up.

HAN
Luke.

LUKE
Hi, Han... Chewie.

Artoo beeps a singsong observation to a worried Threepio.

 THREEPIO
"Exciting" is hardly the word I would use.

54   INT HEADQUARTERS FRIGATE - MAIN DOCKING BAY

The Millennium Falcon rests beyond the stolen IMPERIAL SHUTTLE, which 
looks anomalous among all the Rebel ships in the vast docking bay. 
Chewie barks a final farewell to Lando and leads Artoo and Threepio up 
the shuttle, crowded now with the Rebel strike team loading weapons and 
supplies. Lando turns to face Han. Luke and Leia have said their good-
byes and start up the ramp.

HAN
Look. I want you to take her. I mean it. Take her. You need all the 
help you can get. She's
the fastest ship in the fleet.

LANDO
All right, old buddy. You know, I know what she means to you. I'll take 
good care of her.
She-she won't get a scratch. All right?

HAN	 (looks at him warmly)
Right. I got your promise now. Not a scratch.

LANDO
Look, would you get going, you pirate.

Han and Lando pause, then exchange salutes.

LANDO
Good luck.

HAN
You, too.

Han goes up the ramp. Lando watches him go and then slowly turns away.

55   INT IMPERIAL SHUTTLE - COCKPIT

Luke is working on a back control panel as Han comes in and takes the 
pilot's seat. Chewie, in the seat next to him, is trying to figure out 
all the Imperial controls.

HAN
You got her warmed?

LUKE
Yeah, she's comin' up.

Chewie growls a complaint.

HAN
No. I don't think the Empire had Wookiees in mind when they designed 
her, Chewie.

Leia comes in from the hold and takes her seat near Luke.

Chewie barks and hits some switches. Han's glance has stuck on 
something out the window: the Millennium Falcon. Leia nudges him 
gently.

LEIA
Hey, are you awake?

HAN
Yeah, I just got a funny feeling. Like I'm not gonna see her again.

Chewie, hearing this, stops his activity and looks longingly out at the 
Falcon, too. Leia puts a hand on Han's shoulder.

LEIA	 (softly)
Come on, General, let's move.

Han snaps back to life.

HAN
Right. Chewie, let's see what this piece of junk can do. Ready, 
everybody?

LUKE
All set.

THREEPIO
Here we go again.

HAN
All right, hang on.

56   EXT SPACE - THE REBEL FLEET

The stolen Imperial shuttle leaves the main docking bay of the 
Headquarters Frigate, lowers its wings into flight position, and zooms 
off into space.

57   INT EMPEROR'S THRONE ROOM

The converted control room is dimly lit, except for a pool of light at 
the far end. There the Emperor sits in an elaborate control chair 
before a large window which looks out across the half-completed Death 
Star to the giant green moon of Endor.

Darth Vader, standing with other members of the Imperial council, 
cautiously approaches his master. The ruler's back is to Vader. After 
several tense moments, the Emperor's chair rotates around to face him.

VADER
What is thy bidding, my Master?

EMPEROR
Send the fleet to the far side of Endor. There it will stay until 
called for.

VADER
What of the reports of the Rebel fleet massing near Sullust?

EMPEROR
It is of no concern. Soon the Rebellion will be crushed and young 
Skywalker will be one of us! Your work here is finished, my friend. Go 
out to the command ship and await my orders.

VADER
Yes, my Master.

Vader bows, then turns and exits the throne room as the Emperor walks 
toward the waiting council members.

58   EXT SPACE - DEATH STAR - MOON

There is a great deal of Imperial traffic in the area as construction 
proceeds on the Death Star. Transports, TIE fighters, and a few Star 
Destroyers move about. Now the huge Super Star Destroyer announces 
itself with a low roar and soon fills the frame.

59   INT STOLEN IMPERIAL SHUTTLE - COCKPIT

Han looks back at Luke and Leia as Chewie flips several switches. 
Through the viewscreen, the Death Star and the huge Super Star 
Destroyer can be seen.

HAN
If they don't go for this, we're gonna have to get outta here pretty 
quick, Chewie.

Chewie growls his agreement.

CONTROLLER	 (over radio)
We have you on our screen now. Please identify.

HAN
Shuttle Tydirium requesting deactivation of the deflector shield.

CONTROLLER	 (over radio)
Shuttle Tydirium, transmit the clearance code for shield passage.

HAN
Transmission commencing.

Leia and Chewbacca listen tensely as the sound of a high speed 
transmission begins.

LEIA
Now we find out if that code is worth the price we paid.

HAN
It'll work. It'll work.

Chewie whines nervously. Luke stares at the Huge Super Star Destroyer 
that looms ever larger before them.

LUKE
Vader's on that ship.

HAN
Now don't get jittery, Luke. There are a lot of command ships. Keep 
your distance though, Chewie, but don't look like you're trying to keep 
your distance.

Chewie barks a question.

HAN
I don't know.  Fly casual.

LUKE
I'm endangering the mission. I shouldn't have come.

HAN
It's your imagination, kid. Come on. Let's keep a little optimism here.

Chewie barks his worries as the Super Star Destroyer grows larger out 
the window.

60   INT VADER'S STAR DESTROYER - BRIDGE

Lord Vader stands, back to us, staring out a window at the Death Star. 
Now, some vibration felt only by him causes him to turn. After a moment 
of stillness, he walks down the row of controllers to where ADMIRAL 
PIETT is leaning over the tracking screen of the controller we've seen 
earlier. Piett straightens at Vader's approach.

VADER
Where is that shuttle going?

PIETT	 (into comlink)
Shuttle Tydirium, what is your cargo and destination?

PILOT VOICE    (HAN)   (filtered)
Parts and technical crew for the forest moon.

The Bridge Commander looks to Vader for a reaction.

VADER
Do they have a code clearance?

PIETT
It's an older code, sir, but it checks out. I was about to clear them.

Vader looks upward, as he senses Luke's presence.

PIETT
Shall I hold them?

VADER
No. Leave them to me. I will deal with them myself.

PIETT	 (surprised)
As you wish, my lord.
(to controller)
Carry on.

Piett nods at controller, who switches on his comlink.

61   INT STOLEN IMPERIAL SHUTTLE - COCKPIT

The group waits tensely.

HAN
They're not goin' for it, Chewie.

CONTROLLER	 (filtered)
Shuttle Tydirium, deactivation of the shield will commence immediately. 
Follow your
present course.

Everyone breaths a sigh of relief. Everyone but Luke, who looks 
worried. Chewie barks.

HAN
Okay! I told you it was gonna work. No problem.

62   EXT SPACE - STOLEN IMPERIAL SHUTTLE - ENDOR

The stolen Imperial shuttle moves off toward the green Sanctuary Moon.

63   EXT FOREST LANDING SITE - ENDOR

The stolen Imperial shuttle sits in a clearing of the moon's dark, 
primeval forest, dwarfed by the ancient towering trees.

On an adjacent hill, the helmeted Rebel contingent makes its way up a 
steep trail. Leia and Han are slightly ahead of Chewie and Luke. The 
troops of the strike-team squad follow, with Artoo and Threepio 
bringing up the rear. Artoo beeps.

Up ahead, Chewie and Leia reach a crest in the hill and drop suddenly 
to the ground, signaling the rest of the group to stop. Han and Luke 
crawl up to take a look.

THREEPIO
Oh, I told you it was dangerous here.

THEIR POV. Not far below them, two IMPERIAL SCOUTS are wandering 
through bushes in the valley below. Their two ROCKET BIKES are parked 
nearby.

LEIA
Shall we try and go around?

HAN
It'll take time. This whole party'll be for nothing if they see us.

Leia motions for the squad to stay put, then she, Han, Luke and Chewie 
start quietly down.

64   EXT FOREST CLEARING - CAMPSITE

The four friends make their way to the edge of the clearing not far 
from the two Imperial scouts.

HAN
Chewie and I will take care of this. You stay here.

LUKE
Quietly, there might be more of them out there.

HAN	 (grins)
Hey... it's me.

Han and Chewie turn and start through the bushes toward the scouts. 
Luke and Leia exchange smiles.

Han sneaks up behind one of the scouts, steps on a twig and the scout 
whirls, knocking Han into a tree. The scout shouts for his companion.

SCOUT #1
Go for help! Go!

The second scout jumps on his speeder bike and takes off, but Chewie 
gets off a shot on his crossbow laser weapon, causing the scout to 
crash into a tree. Han and Scout #1 are in a rousing fistfight.

LUKE	 (sarcastic)
Great. Come on.

Luke starts for the scuffle, followed by Leia with her laser pistol 
drawn. As they run through the bushes, Leia stops and points to where 
two more scouts are sitting on their speeder bikes, with an unoccupied 
bike parked nearby.

LEIA
Over there! Two more of them!

LUKE
I see them. Wait, Leia!

But Leia doesn't hear him and races for the remaining speeder bike. She 
starts it up and takes off as Luke jumps on the bike behind her.

LUKE	 (pointing to the controls)
Quick! Jam their comlink. Center switch!

Luke and Leia speed into the dense foliage in hot pursuit, barely 
avoiding two huge trees.

HAN
Hey, wait! Ahhh!

He flips the remaining scout to the ground.

65   EXT FOREST - THE BIKE CHASE

The two fleeing Imperial scouts have a good lead as Luke and Leia 
pursue through the giant trees at 200 miles an hour, the fire from 
their bike's laser cannon hitting harmlessly near the moving targets.

LUKE
Move closer!

Leia guns it, closing the gap, as the two scouts recklessly veer 
through a narrow gap in the trees. One of the bikes SCRAPES a tree, 
slowing the scout.

LUKE
Get alongside that one!

Leia pulls her speeder bike up so close to the scout's bike that their 
steering vanes SCRAPE noisily. Luke leaps from his bike to the back of 
the scout's, grabs the Imperial warrior around the neck, and flips him 
off the bike, into a thick tree trunk. Luke gains control of the bike 
and follows Leia, who has pulled ahead. They tear off after the 
remaining scout.

LUKE
Get him!

The speeding chase passes TWO MORE IMPERIAL SCOUTS. These two swing 
into pursuit, chasing Luke and Leia, firing away with their laser 
cannon. The two Rebels look behind them just as Luke's bike takes a 
glancing hit.

LUKE	 (indicating the one ahead)
Keep on that one! I'll take these two!

With Leia shooting ahead, Luke suddenly slams his steering vanes into 
the braking mode. Luke's bike is a blur to the two pursuing scouts as 
they zip by him on either side. Luke slams his bike into forward and 
starts firing away, having switched places with his pursuers in a 
manner of seconds. Luke's aim is good and one scout's bike is blasted 
out of control. It explodes against a tree trunk.

The scout's cohort takes one glance back at the flash and shifts into 
turbo drive, going even faster. Luke keeps on his tail.

FAR AHEAD, Leia and the first scout are doing a highspeed slalom 
through the death-dealing trunks. Now Leia aims her bike skyward and 
rises out of sight.

The scout turns in confusion, unable to see his pursuer. Suddenly, Leia 
dives down upon him from above, cannon blasting. The scout's bike takes 
a glancing hit.

Leia moves in alongside him. The scout eyes her beside him, reaches 
down, and pulls out a handgun. Before Leia can react, the scout has 
blasted her bike, sending it out of control. Leia dives off as her bike 
explodes against a tree. The happy scout looks back at the explosion. 
But when he turns forward again, he is on a collision course with a 
giant fallen tree. He hits his brakes to no avail and disappears in a 
conflagration.

ANOTHER PART OF THE FOREST: Luke and the last remaining scout continue 
their weaving chase through the trees. Now Luke moves up close. The 
scout responds by slamming his bike into Luke's. A fallen tree forms a 
bridge across their path. The scout zips under. Luke goes over the top 
and crashes his bike down on the scout's. Both riders look ahead - a 
wide trunk looms directly in Luke's path, but the scout's bike beside 
him makes it almost impossible for him to avoid it. Luke banks with all 
his might, leaning almost horizontal over the scout's bike, and is able 
to make it by, just clipping the tree. When he straightens, he and the 
scout discover that their two bikes have locked front vanes and are 
moving as one.

Another big tree looms in Luke's path. He reacts instinctively and 
dives off his bike. The two bikes come apart a second before Luke's 
explodes against a tree. The scout sweeps out and circles back to find 
Luke.

Luke rises from the undergrowth as the scout bears down on him and 
opens fire with his laser cannon. Luke ignites his laser sword and 
begins deflecting the bolts. The scout's bike keeps coming and it 
appears that in a second it will cut Luke in half. At the last instant, 
Luke steps aside and chops off the bike's control vanes with one mighty 
slash. The scout's bike begins to shudder, then, pitching and rolling, 
it rises up to slam directly into a tree in a giant ball of fire.

66   EXT SCOUT CAMPSITE - FOREST

Han, Chewie, and the droids, along with the rest of the squad, wait 
anxiously in the clearing. Artoo's radar screen sticks out of his domed 
head and revolves, scanning the forest. He beeps.

THREEPIO
Oh, General Solo, somebody's coming. Oh!

Han, Chewie, and the rest of the squad raise their weapons.

Luke steps out of the foliage to find the weapons trained on him. He's 
too tired to care. He plops himself down on a boulder and looks around.

HAN
Luke! Where's Leia?

LUKE	 (concerned)
What? She didn't come back?

HAN
I thought she was with you.

LUKE
We got separated.

Luke and Han exchange a silent, grim look. Luke gets up wearily.

LUKE
Hey, we better go look for her.

Han nods, and signals to a Rebel officer.

HAN
Take the squad ahead.  We'll meet at the shield generator at 0300.

LUKE
Come on, Artoo.  We'll need your scanners.

Luke, Chewie, Han, and the droids move off in one direction as the 
squad proceeds in another.

THREEPIO
Don't worry, Master Luke.  We know what to do.

They move off into the woods.

THREEPIO	 (to Artoo)
And you said it was pretty here. Ugh!

67   EXT FOREST CLEARING - LEIA'S CRASH SITE

A strange little furry face with huge black eyes comes slowly into 
view. The creature is an EWOK, by the name of WICKET. He seems somewhat 
puzzled, and prods Leia with a spear. The princess groans; this 
frightens the stubby ball of fuzz and he prods her again. Leia sits up 
and stares at the three-foot-high Ewok. She tries to figure out where 
she is and what has happened. Her clothes are torn; she's bruised and 
disheveled.

The Ewok jumps up and grabs a four-foot-long spear, which he holds in a 
defensive position. Leia watches him as he circles warily and begins 
poking her with the sharp point of the spear.

LEIA
Cut it out!

She stands up, and the Ewok quickly backs away.

LEIA
I'm not gonna hurt you.

Leia looks around at the dense forest, and at the charred remains of 
her speeder bike, then sits down, with a sigh, on a fallen log.

LEIA
Well, looks like I'm stuck here. Trouble is, I don't know where here 
is.

She puts her head in her hands to rub away some of the soreness from 
her fall. She looks over at the watchful little Ewok and pats the log 
beside her.

LEIA
Well, maybe you can help me. Come on, sit down.

Wicket holds his spear up warily and growls at her like a puppy. Leia 
pats the log again.

LEIA
I promise I won't hurt you. Now come here.

More growls and squeaks from the little bear creature.

LEIA
All right. You want something to eat?

She takes a scrap of food out of her pocket and offers it to him. 
Wicket takes a step backward, then cocks his head and moves cautiously 
toward Leia, chattering in his squeaky Ewok language.

LEIA
That's right. Come on. Hmmm?

Sniffing the food curiously, the Ewok comes toward Leia and sits on the 
log beside her. She takes off her helmet, and the little creature jumps 
back, startled again. He runs along the log, pointing his spear at her 
and chattering a blue streak. Leia holds out the helmet to him.

LEIA
Look, it's a hat. It's not gonna hurt you. Look. You're a jittery 
little thing, aren't you?

Reassured, Wicket lowers his spear and climbs back on the log, coming 
to investigate the helmet. Suddenly his ears perk up and he begins to 
sniff the air. He looks around warily, whispering some Ewokese warning 
to Leia.

LEIA
What is it?

Suddenly a laser bolt comes out of the foliage and explodes on the log 
next to Leia. Leia and Wicket both roll backwards off the log, hiding 
behind it. Leia holds her own laser gun ready, while Wicket disappears 
underneath the log. Another shot, and still no sight of anyone in the 
forest. Then Leia senses something and turns to find a large IMPERIAL 
SCOUT standing over her with his weapon pointed at her head. He reaches 
out his hand for her weapon.

SCOUT #l
Freeze!  Come on, get up!

She hands the weapon over, as a second scout emerges from the foliage 
in front of the log.

SCOUT #1
Go get your ride and take her back to base.

SCOUT #2
Yes, sir.

The second scout starts toward his bike, as Wicket, crouched under the 
log, extends his spear and hits the first scout on the leg. The scout 
jumps and lets out an exclamation, and looks down at Wicket, puzzled. 
Leia grabs a branch and knocks him out. She dives for his laser pistol, 
and the second scout, now on his bike, takes off. Leia fires away and 
hits the escaping bike, causing it to crash into the first scout's 
bike, which flies end over end and explodes. The forest is quiet once 
more. Wicket pokes his fuzzy head up from behind the log and regards 
Leia with√änew respect. He mumbles his awe. Leia hurries over, looking 
around all the time, and motions the chubby little creature into the 
dense foliage.

LEIA
Come on, let's get outta here.

As they move into the foliage, Wicket takes the lead. He shrieks and 
tugs at Leia to follow him.

68   INT DEATH STAR - CORRIDOR TO EMPEROR'S TOWER

Darth Vader walks down the corridor to the Emperor's Tower and private 
elevator. The Emperor's private guard steps in Vader's path.

GUARD
Halt! The Emperor does not wish to be disturbed at the moment.

VADER        
(raising his gloved hand to the two guards and choking them with the 
Force)
The Emperor will see me, now!

GUARD
(repeating Vader's command)
The Emperor will see you, now.

69   INT EMPEROR'S TOWER - THRONE ROOM

Two red Imperial Guards stand watch at the elevator as the door opens 
to reveal Vader. Vader enters the eerie, foreboding throne room. It 
appears to be empty. His footsteps echo as he approaches the throne. He 
waits, absolutely still. The Emperor sits with his back to the Dark 
Lord.

EMPEROR
I told you to remain on the command ship.

VADER
A small Rebel force has penetrated the shield and landed on Endor.

EMPEROR	 (no surprise)
Yes, I know.

VADER	 (after a beat)
My son is with them.

EMPEROR	 (very cool)
Are you sure?

VADER
I have felt him, my Master.

EMPEROR
Strange, that I have not. I wonder if your feelings on this matter are 
clear, Lord
Vader.

Vader knows what is being asked.

VADER
They are clear, my Master.

EMPEROR
Then you must go to the Sanctuary Moon and wait for them.

VADER	 (skeptical)
He will come to me?

EMPEROR
I have foreseen it. His compassion for you will be his undoing. He will 
come to you and
then you will bring him before me.

VADER	 (bows)
As you wish.

The Dark Lord strides out of the throne room.

70   EXT FOREST CLEARING - LEIA'S CRASH SITE

Han, Luke, Chewie, and the two droids are spread out as they move 
through the heavy foliage near the clearing where we last saw Leia. 
Luke finds Leia's helmet, picks it up with an expression of concern.

HAN	 (OS)
Luke! Luke!

Luke runs with the helmet to where Han has found the charred wreckage 
of a speeder bike in the grass.

THREEPIO
Oh, Master Luke.

LUKE
There's two more wrecked speeders back there. And I found this.

He tosses the helmet to Han.

THREEPIO
I'm afraid that Artoo's sensors can find no trace of Princess Leia.

HAN	 (gravely)
I hope she's alright.

Chewbacca growls, sniffing the air, then, with a bark, pushes off 
through the foliage.

                              HAN
What, Chewie? What? Chewie!

The others rush to keep up with the giant Wookiee. As he scoots along, 
Artoo whistles nervously.

71   EXT FOREST - DENSE FOLIAGE

The group has reached a break in the undergrowth. Chewie walks up to a 
tall stake planted in the ground. There is a dead animal hanging from 
it.

HAN
Hey, I don't get it.

The rest of the group joins the Wookiee around the stake.

HAN	 (cont)
Nah, it's just a dead animal, Chewie.

Chewie can't resist. He reaches toward the meat.

LUKE
Chewie, wa-wait!  Don't!

Too late. The Wookiee has already pulled the animal from the stake. 
SPROOING! The group finds itself hanging upside down in an Ewok net, 
suspended high above the clearing. Artoo lets out a wild series of 
beeps and whistles, and Chewie howls his regret. Their bodies are a 
jumble in the net. Han removes a Wookiee paw from his mouth.

HAN
Nice work. Great, Chewie! Great! Always thinking with your stomach.

LUKE
Will you take it easy? Let's just figure out a way to get out of this 
thing. 
(trying to free an arm) 
Han, can you reach my lightsaber?

HAN
Yeah, sure.

Artoo is at the bottommost point in the net. He extends his cutting 
appendage and begins slicing at the net. Han is trying to squeeze an 
arm past Threepio to get at Luke's lightsaber. The net continues to 
spin.

THREEPIO
Artoo, I'm not sure that's such a good idea. It's a very long dro-o-
op!!

Artoo has cut through and the entire group tumbles out of the net, 
crashing to the ground. As they regain their senses and sit up, they 
realize they are surrounded by dozens of Ewoks, each brandishing a long 
spear.

HAN
Wha--?  Hey!  Point that thing someplace else.

Han pushes the spear wielded by TEEBO out of his face and a second Ewok 
warrior comes up to argue with Teebo. The spear returns to Han's face. 
He grabs it angrily and starts to go for his laser pistol.

HAN
Hey!

LUKE
Han, don't. It'll be all right.

The Ewoks swarm through them and confiscate their weapons. Luke lets 
them take his lightsaber. Chewie growls at the furry critters.

LUKE
Chewie, give 'em your crossbow.

Artoo and Threepio are just untangling themselves. Threepio gets free 
of the net and sits up, rattled.

THREEPIO
Oh, my head. Oh, my goodness!

When the Ewoks see Threepio, they let out a gasp and chatter among 
themselves. Threepio speaks to them in their native tongue. The Ewok 
nearest him drops his spear and prostrates himself before the droid. In 
a moment, all the Ewoks have followed suit. Chewie lets out a puzzled 
bark. Han and Luke regard the bowed creatures in wonder. The Ewoks 
begin to chant at Threepio.

LUKE
Do you understand anything they're saying?

THREEPIO
Oh, yes, Master Luke!  Remember that I am fluent in over six million 
forms of
communication.

HAN
What are you telling them?

THREEPIO
Hello, I think... I could be mistaken. They're using a very primitive 
dialect.  But
I do believe they think I am some sort of god.

Chewbacca and Artoo think that's very funny. Han and Luke exchange 
"what next?" looks.

HAN
Well, why don't you use your divine influence and get us out of this?

THREEPIO
I beg your pardon, General Solo, but that just wouldn't be proper.

HAN
Proper?!

THREEPIO
It's against my programming to impersonate a deity.

Han moves toward Threepio threateningly.

HAN
Why, you--

Several Ewoks' spears are thrust in Han's face at the affront to their 
god. The Ewoks move in to protect their god and Han is surrounded by a 
menacing circle of spears, all aimed at him. He holds up his hands 
placatingly.

HAN
My mistake. He's an old friend of mine.

72   EXT FOREST - SERIES OF SHOTS

A procession of Ewoks winds through the ever-darkening forest. Their 
prisoners - Han, Luke, Chewie, and Artoo - are tied to long poles and 
wrapped in vines, cocoonlike.

Each pole is carried on the shoulders of several Ewoks. Behind the 
captives, Threepio is carried on a litter, like a king, by the 
remaining creatures.

73   EXT FOREST WALKWAY - MOON FOREST

The procession moves along a shaky, narrow, wooden walkway, high in the 
giant trees. It stops at the end of the walkway, which drops off into 
nothingness. On the other side of the abyss is a village of mud huts 
and rickety walkways, attached to the giant trees. The lead Ewok takes 
hold of a long vine and swings across to the village square; the other 
Ewoks follow suit.

74   EXT EWOK VILLAGE SQUARE

The procession winds its way into the village square. Mother Ewoks 
gather their babies up and scurry into their huts at the sight of the 
newcomers. The group stops before the largest hut.

Han, Luke, Chewie, and Artoo are still bound to their poles. Han is 
placed on a spit above what looks like a barbecue pit and the others 
are leaned against a tree nearby. Threepio's litter/throne is gently 
placed near the pit. He watches with rapt fascination. Han, Luke, and 
Chewie are less than fascinated.

HAN
I have a really bad feeling about this.

Chewie growls his concern.

Suddenly all activity stops as LOGRAY, the tribal Medicine Man, comes 
out of the big hut. He examines the captives carefully, goes to join 
Threepio, whose throne has been placed on an elevated platform. A 
larger, gray-haired Ewok, CHIEF CHIRPA, is examining Luke's lightsaber 
with great curiosity.

Logray speaks to Threepio and the assemblage of fuzzy Ewoks, pointing 
to the prisoners tied to the stakes. The Ewoks begin filling the pit 
under Han with firewood.

HAN
What did he say?

THREEPIO
I'm rather embarrassed, General Solo, but it appears you are to be the 
main course at a
banquet in my honor.

The drums start beating, and all the furry heads turn to the large hut. 
Leia emerges, wearing an animal-skin dress. She sees what's happening 
at the same moment the prisoners see her.

HAN and LUKE
Leia!

As she moves toward them, the Ewoks block her way with raised spears.

LEIA
Oh!

THREEPIO
Your Royal Highness.

Artoo and Chewie chime in with their welcome. Leia looks at the 
assembled Ewoks and sighs.

LEIA
But these are my friends. Threepio, tell them they must be set free.

Threepio talks to Chirpa and Logray, who listen and shake their heads 
negatively. The Medicine Man gestures toward the prisoners and barks 
some orders. Several Ewoks jump up and pile more wood on the barbecue 
with vigor. Leia trades frantic looks with Luke and Han .

HAN
Somehow, I got the feeling that didn't help us very much.

LUKE
Threepio, tell them if they don't do as you wish, you'll become angry 
and use your magic.

THREEPIO
But Master Luke, what magic? I couldn't possibly --

LUKE
Just tell them.

Threepio speaks to the Ewoks. The Ewoks are disturbed. Logray steps 
forward and challenges Threepio. Luke closes his eyes and begins to 
concentrate.

THREEPIO
You see, Master Luke; they didn't believe me. Just...

Now the litter/throne, with Threepio sitting upon it, rises from the 
ground. At first Threepio doesn't notice and keeps talking.

THREEPIO
... as I said they wouldn't. Wha-wha-what's happening! Oh! Oh, dear! 
Oh!

The Ewoks fall back in terror from the floating throne. Now Threepio 
begins to spin as though he were on a revolving stool, with Threepio 
calling out in total panic at his situation.

THREEPIO
Put me down! He-e-elp! Master Luke! Artoo! Somebody, somebody, help! 
Master Luke, Artoo! Artoo, quickly! Do something, somebody! Oh! Ohhh!

Chief Chirpa yells orders to the cowering Ewoks. They rush up and 
release the bound prisoners. Luke and Han enfold Leia in a group 
embrace. Luke notices the spinning Threepio, with Artoo beeping up at 
him, and slowly lowers the golden droid and the throne to the ground. 
Logray orders the little droid cut down. Artoo crashes to the ground. 
When the Ewoks set him upright, the little droid is fighting mad. Artoo 
beeps a blue streak at the nearest Ewok, and begins pursuing him, 
finally getting close enough to zap him with an electric charge. The 
Ewok jumps two feet in the air and runs away, screaming. A small group 
of Ewoks surround the giant Wookiee, scratching their heads and 
marveling at his height.

THREEPIO
Oh, oh, oh, oh! Thank goodness.

LUKE
Thanks, Threepio.

THREEPIO	 (still shaken)
I...I never knew I had it in me.

75   INT CHIEF'S HUT - COUNCIL OF ELDERS

A glowing fire dances in the center of the spartan, low-ceilinged room, 
creating a kaleidoscope of shadows on the walls. Along one side, a 
group of ten Ewok elders flank Chief Chirpa, who sits on his throne. 
The Rebels sit along the walls of the hut, with Threepio between the 
two groups and Wicket and Teebo off to one side.

Threepio is in the midst of a long, animated speech in the Ewok's 
squeaky native tongue. The Ewoks listen carefully and occasionally 
murmur comments to each other. Threepio points several times at the 
Rebel group and pantomimes a short history of the Galactic Civil War, 
mimicking the explosion and rocket sounds, imitating Imperial walkers. 
Throughout the long account, certain familiar names are distinguishable 
in English: Princess Leia, Artoo, Darth Vader, Death Star, Jedi, Obi-
Wan Kenobi. Artoo begins beeping excitedly at Threepio.

THREEPIO
Yes, Artoo. I was just coming to that.

Threepio continues with: Millennium Falcon, Cloud City, Vader, Han 
Solo, carbonite, Sarlacc, bringing the history up to the present time.

At the end of it, the Chief, Logray, and the elders confer, then nod in 
agreement. The Chief stands and makes a pronouncement.

The drums begin to sound, and all the Ewoks stand with a great cheer 
and screeches.

HAN
What's going on?

LEIA
I don't know.

Luke has been sharing the joy with smiling visage, but now something 
passes like a dark cloud through his consciousness. The others do not 
notice.

THREEPIO
Wonderful! We are now a part of the tribe.

Several of the little teddy bears run up and hug the Rebels.

HAN
Just what I always wanted.

Chewbacca is being enthusiastically embraced by an Ewok, while Wicket 
clings to Han's leg.

HAN	 (chuckles)
Well, short help is better than no help at all, Chewie. 
(to Wicket) 
Thank you. Okay.

THREEPIO
He says the scouts are going to show us the quickest way to the shield 
generator.

Chewie barks. Luke has drifted to the back of the hut. Now he wanders 
outside into the moonlight. Leia notices and follows.

HAN
Good. How far is it? Ask him. We need some fresh supplies, too. And try 
and get our weapons back.

Han pulls Threepio back as he keeps trying to translate.

HAN	 (cont)
And hurry up, will ya? I haven't got all day.

76   EXT EWOK VILLAGE - NIGHT

The walkway is deserted now. The windows of the little huts glow and 
flicker from the fires inside. The sounds of the forest fill the soft 
night air. Luke has wandered away from the Chief's hut and stands 
staring up at the Death Star. Leia finds him like that.

LEIA
Luke, what's wrong?

Luke turns and looks at her a long moment.

LUKE
Leia... do you remember your mother? Your real mother?

LEIA
Just a little bit. She died when I was very young.

LUKE
What do you remember?

LEIA
Just...images, really. Feelings.

LUKE
Tell me.

LEIA
(a little surprised at his insistence)
She was very beautiful. Kind, but...sad.
(looks up)
Why are you asking me all this?

He looks away.

LUKE
I have no memory of my mother. I never knew her.

LEIA
Luke, tell me. What's troubling you?

LUKE
Vader is here...now, on this moon.

LEIA	 (alarmed)
How do you know?

LUKE
I felt his presence. He's come for me. He can feel when I'm near. 
That's why I have to go.
(facing her)
As long as I stay, I'm endangering the group and our mission here.
(beat)
I have to face him.

Leia is distraught, confused.

LEIA
Why?

Luke moves close and his manner is gentle. And very calm.

LUKE
He's my father.

LEIA
Your father?

LUKE
There's more. It won't be easy for you to hear it, but you must. If I 
don't make it back, you're the only hope for the Alliance.

Leia is very disturbed by this. She moves away, as if to deny it.

LEIA
Luke, don't talk that way. You have a power I--I don't understand and 
could never have.

LUKE
You're wrong, Leia. You have that power too. In time you'll learn to 
use it as I have. The Force is strong in my family. My father has 
it...I have it...and...my sister has it.

Leia stares into his eyes. What she sees there frightens her. But she 
doesn't draw away. She begins to understand.

LUKE
Yes. It's you Leia.

LEIA
I know. Somehow...I've always known.

LUKE
Then you know why I have to face him.

LEIA
No! Luke, run away, far away. If he can feel your presence, then leave 
this place. I wish I could go with you.

LUKE
No, you don't. You've always been strong.

LEIA
But, why must you confront him?

LUKE
Because...there is good in him. I've felt it. He won't turn me over to 
the Emperor. I can save him. I can turn him back to the good side. I 
have to try.

They hold each other close and look at each other, brother and sister.

Leia holds back her tears as Luke slowly lets her go and moves away. He 
disappears onto the walkway that leads out of the village. Leia, bathed 
in moonlight, watches him go as Han comes out of the Chief's hut and 
comes over to her. Leia is crying, her body trembling. He realizes only 
now that she is crying.

HAN
Hey, what's goin' on?

Leia attempts to stifle her sobs and wipes her eyes.

LEIA
Nothing. I - just want to be alone for a little while.

HAN	 (angry)
Nothing?  Come on, tell me.  What's goin' on?

She looks up at him, struggling to control herself.

LEIA
I...I can't tell you.

HAN	 (loses his temper)
Did you tell Luke? Is that who you could tell?

LEIA
I...

HAN
Ahhh...

He starts to walk away, exasperated, then stops and walks back to her.

HAN
I'm sorry.

LEIA
Hold me.

Han gathers her tightly in his protective embrace.

77   EXT FOREST - IMPERIAL LANDING PLATFORM

An Imperial shuttle floats down from the Death Star and lands 
gracefully on the huge platform.

Now, an Imperial walker approaches the platform from the darkness of 
the forest. The whole outpost - platform, walkers, military - looks 
particularly offensive in the midst of this verdant beauty.

78   EXT IMPERIAL LANDING PLATFORM - LOWER DECK

Darth Vader walks down the ramp of the shuttle onto the platform, into 
an elevator, and appears on a ramp on a lower level. He walks toward 
another ramp exit and is met by two troopers and a commander with Luke, 
in binders, at their center. The young Jedi gazes at Vader with 
complete calm.

COMMANDER
This is a Rebel that surrendered to us. Although he denies it, I 
believe there may be more of them, and I request permission to conduct 
a further search of the area.

The commander extends his hand, revealing Luke's lightsaber.

COMMANDER
He was armed only with this.

Vader looks at Luke, turns away and faces the commander, taking the 
lightsaber from the commander's hand.

VADER
Good work, Commander. Leave us. Conduct your search and bring his 
companions to me.

COMMANDER
Yes, my Lord.

The officer and troops withdraw. Vader and Luke are left standing alone 
in the oddly tranquil beauty of the place. The sounds of the forest 
filter in upon them.

VADER
The Emperor has been expecting you.

LUKE
I know, father.

VADER
So, you have accepted the truth.

LURE
I've accepted the truth that you were once Anakin Skywalker, my father.

VADER	 (turning to face him)
That name no longer has any meaning for me.

LUKE
It is the name of your true self. You've only forgotten. I know there 
is good in you. The Emperor hasn't driven it from you fully. That is 
why you couldn't destroy me. That's why you won't bring me to your 
Emperor now.

Vader looks down from Luke to the lightsaber in his own black- gloved 
hand. He seems to ponder Luke's words.

VADER	 (indicating lightsaber)
I see you have constructed a new lightsaber.

Vader ignites the lightsaber and holds it to examine its humming, 
brilliant blade.

VADER
Your skills are complete. Indeed, you are powerful, as the Emperor has 
foreseen.

They stand for a moment, the Vader extinguishes the lightsaber.

LUKE
Come with me.

VADER
Obi-Wan once thought as you do.

Luke steps close to Vader, then stops. Vader is still.

VADER
You don't know the power of the dark side. I must obey my master.

LUKE
I will not turn...and you'll be forced to kill me.

VADER
If that is your destiny.

LUKE
Search your feelings, father. You can't do this. I feel the conflict 
within you. Let go
of your hate.

VADER
It is too late for me, son. The Emperor will show you the true nature 
of the Force. He is
your master now.

Vader signals to some distant stormtroopers. He and Luke stand staring 
at one another for a long moment.

LUKE
Then my father is truly dead.

79   EXT ENDOR - RIDGE OVERLOOKING SHIELD GENERATOR

Han, Leia, Chewbacca, the droids, Wicket, and another Ewok scout, 
PAPLOO, hide on a ridge overlooking the massive Imperial shield 
generator. At the base of the generator is an Imperial landing 
platform. Leia studies the installation.

LEIA
The main entrance to the control bunker's on the far side of that 
landing platform. This
isn't gonna be easy.

HAN
Hey, don't worry. Chewie and me got into a lot of places more heavily 
guarded than this.

Wicket and Paploo are chattering away in Ewok language. They speak to 
Threepio.

LEIA
What's he saying?

THREEPIO
He says there's a secret entrance on the other side of the ridge.

80   EXT SPACE - REBEL FLEET

The vast fleet hangs in space near a blue planet. A giant Rebel Star 
Cruiser is up at the front, but now the Millennium Flacon roars up to a 
spot ahead of it, tiny in comparison.

81   INT MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Lando is in the pilot seat. His alien copilot, NIEN NUNB, takes some 
getting used to in the familiar environs of the Falcon's cockpit. Lando 
speaks into his comlink.

LANDO
Admiral, we're in position. All fighters accounted for.

ACKBAR 	(VO)
Proceed with the countdown. All groups assume attack coordinates.

Lando turns to his weird copilot.

LANDO
Don't worry, my friends are down there. They'll have that shield down 
on time...
(to himself) 
or this'll be the shortest offensive of all time.

The copilot flips some switches and grunts an alien comment.

ACKBAR	 (VO)
All craft, prepare to jump to hyperspace on my mark.

LANDO
All right. Stand by.

He pulls a lever, and the stars outside begin to streak.

82   EXT SPACE - REBEL FLEET

We are treated to an awesome sight: first the Millennium Falcon, then 
Ackbar's Star Cruiser, then, in large segments, the huge fleet ROARS 
INTO HYPERSPACE. And disappears.

83   EXT ENDOR - RIDGE OVERLOOKING CONTROL BUNKER

Han, Leia, Chewie, the droids, and their two Ewok guides, Wicket and 
Paploo, have reunited with the Rebel strike squad. The entire group is 
spread through the thick undergrowth. Below them is the BUNKER that 
leads into the generator. Four Imperial scouts, their speeder bikes 
parked nearby, keep watch over the bunker entrance. Chewie growls an 
observation, and Paploo chatters away to Han in Ewok language.

HAN
Back door, huh? Good idea.

Wicket and Paploo continue their Ewok conversation.

HAN	 (cont)
It's only a few guards. This shouldn't be too much trouble.

LEIA
Well, it only takes one to sound the alarm.

HAN	 (with self-confident grin)
Then we'll do it real quiet-like.

Threepio explains what is going on to Wicket and Paploo. The Ewoks 
chatter a moment between themselves. Then Paploo jumps up and scampers 
into the underbrush.

Threepio asks Wicket where Paploo went and is given a short reply.

THREEPIO
Oh! Oh, my. Uh, Princess Leia!

LEIA
Quiet.

THREEPIO
I'm afraid our furry companion has gone and done something rather rash.

LEIA
Oh, no.

84   EXT BUNKER - ENTRANCE

Paploo has slipped out of the undergrowth near where the Imperial 
scouts are lounging. He silently swings his furry ball of a body onto 
one of the scout's speeder bikes and begins flipping switches at 
random. Suddenly, the bike's engine fires up with a tremendous ROAR. 
Paploo grins and continues flipping switches. The scouts leap up in 
surprise.

85   EXT RIDGE

Han, Leia and company watch in distress. Chewie barks.

HAN 	(sighs)
There goes our surprise attack.

86   EXT BUNKER

The Imperial scouts race toward Paploo just as his speeder zooms into 
motion. Paploo hangs on by his paws and shoots away into the forest.

SCOUT
Look! Over there! Stop him!

Three of the Imperial scouts jump on their rocket bikes and speed away 
in pursuit. The fourth watches them go from his post at the door.

87   EXT RIDGE

Han, Leia, and Chewie exchange delighted looks.

HAN
Not bad for a little furball. There's only one left. You stay here. 
We'll take care of this.

Han and the Wookiee nod at each other and slip down toward the bunker. 
Threepio moves to stand next to Wicket and Artoo.

THREEPIO
I have decided that we shall stay here.

88   EXT FOREST

Paploo sails through the trees, more lucky than in control. It's scary, 
but he loves it. When the Imperial scouts pull within sight behind him 
and begin firing laser bolts, he decides he's had enough. As he rounds 
a tree, out of their sight, Paploo grabs a vine and swings up into the 
trees. A moment later, the scouts tear under him in pursuit of the 
still-flying, unoccupied bike.

89   EXT BUNKER

Han sneaks up behind the remaining Imperial scout, taps him on the 
shoulder and lets the scout chase him behind the bunker into the arms 
of the waiting Rebel strike team. Han returns to the front, and taps 
out a pattern on the bunker door's control panel. Everyone stands out 
of sight, police-style, as the door opens. Han and Leia peek inside. No 
sign of life. The group enters the bunker silently, leaving one lookout 
behind.

90   INT DEATH STAR - EMPEROR'S THRONE ROOM

The elevator opens. Vader and Luke enter the room alone. They walk 
across the dark space to stand before the throne, father and son side 
by side beneath the gaze of the Emperor. Vader bows to his Master.

EMPEROR
Welcome, young Skywalker. I have been expecting you.

Luke peers at the hooded figure defiantly. The Emperor then looks down 
at Luke's binders.

EMPEROR
You no longer need those.

The Emperor motions ever so slightly with his finger and Luke's binders 
fall away, clattering to the floor. Luke looks down at his own hands, 
free now to reach out and grab the Emperor's neck. He does nothing.

EMPEROR
Guards, leave us.

The red-cloaked guards turn and disappear behind the elevator.

EMPEROR	 (to Luke)
I'm looking forward to completing your training. In time you will call 
me Master.

LUKE
You're gravely mistaken. You won't convert me as you did my father.

The Emperor gets down from his throne and walks up very close to Luke. 
The Emperor looks into his eyes and, for the first time, Luke can 
perceive the evil visage within the hood.

EMPEROR
Oh, no, my young Jedi. You will find that it is you who are 
mistaken...about a great many things.

VADER
His lightsaber.

Vader extends a gloved hand toward the Emperor, revealing Luke's 
lightsaber. The Emperor takes it.

EMPEROR
Ah, yes, a Jedi's weapon. Much like your father's. By now you must know 
your father can never be turned from the dark side. So will it be with 
you.

LUKE
You're wrong. Soon I'll be dead...and you with me.

The Emperor laughs.

EMPEROR
Perhaps you refer to the imminent attack of your Rebel fleet.

Luke looks up sharply.

EMPEROR
Yes...I assure you we are quite safe from your friends here.

Vader looks at Luke.

LUKE
Your overconfidence is your weakness.

EMPEROR
Your faith in your friends is yours.

VADER
It is pointless to resist, my son.

The Emperor turns to face Luke.

EMPEROR	 (angry)
Everything that has transpired has done so according to my design. 
(indicates Endor)
Your friends up there on the Sanctuary Moon...

Luke reacts. The Emperor notes it.

EMPEROR	 (cont)
...are walking into a trap. As is your Rebel fleet! It was I who 
allowed the Alliance to know the location of the shield generator. It 
is quite safe from your pitiful little band. An entire legion of my 
best troops awaits them.

Luke's look darts from the Emperor to Vader and, finally, to the sword 
in the Emperor's hand.

EMPEROR
Oh...I'm afraid the deflector shield will be quite operational when 
your friends arrive.

91   INT BUNKER - MAIN CONTROL ROOM

Han, Leia, Chewie, and the Rebel strike team storm through a door and 
enter the main control room, taking all of the personnel prisoner.

HAN
All right! Up! Move! Come on! Quickly! Quickly, Chewie.

The Rebel troops herd the generator controllers away from their panels. 
Leia glances at one of the screens on the control panel.

LEIA
Han! Hurry! The fleet will be here any moment.

HAN
Charges!  Come on, come on!

Outside, Threepio watches nervously in the bushes as several more 
controllers and stormtroopers run into the bunker, leaving guards at 
the door.

THREEPIO	 (to Wicket)
Oh, my! They'll be captured!

Wicket chatters in Ewok language, and then takes off full steam into 
the forest.

THREEPIO
Wa-wait! Wait, come back! Artoo, stay with me.

Inside the bunker, Han looks up from setting charges as an Imperial 
commander enters.

COMMANDER
Freeze! You Rebel scum.

Han and Leia spin, to find dozens of Imperial weapons trained on them 
and their cohorts. A poised force of Imperial troops surround them. 
Even more pour into the room, roughly disarming the Rebel contingent. 
Han, Leia, and Chewie exchange looks. They're helpless.

92   EXT SPACE - ENDOR, DEATH STAR, REBEL FLEET

The Death Star and its Sanctuary Moon hang distant in space as the 
Rebel fleet comes out of hyperspace with an awesome roar. The 
Millennium Falcon and several Rebel fighters are at the front as the 
space armada bears down on its target.

93   INT MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Lando flips switches, checks his screen, and speaks into the radio.

LANDO
All wings report in.

WEDGE
Red Leader standing by.

GRAY LEADER
Gray Leader standing by.

GREEN LEADER
Green Leader standing by.

WEDGE
Lock S-foils in attack positions.

94   INT REBEL STAR CRUISER - BRIDGE

From the bridge of the Rebel Headquarters Frigate, Admiral Ackbar 
watches the fighters massing outside his viewscreen.

ACKBAR
May the Force be with us.

95   INT MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Lando looks worriedly at his alien copilot, Nien Nunb, who points to 
the control panel and talks to Lando.

LANDO
We've got to be able to get some kind of a reading on that shield, up 
or down. Well, how
could they be jamming us if they don't know if we're coming.

Lando shoots a concerned look out at the approaching Death Star as the 
implications of what he's just said sink in. He hits a switch on his 
comlink.

LANDO
Break off the attack! The shield is still up.

RED LEADER	 (VO)
I get no reading. Are you sure?

LANDO
Pull up! All craft pull up!

The Falcon turns hard to the left. Out the window the stars and the 
Death Star move off right.

96   EXT SPACE - DEATH STAR SHIELD

The Falcon and the fighters of Red Squad veer off desperately to avoid 
the unseen wall.

97   INT REBEL STAR CRUISER - BRIDGE

Alarms are screaming and lights flashing as the huge ship changes 
course abruptly. Other ships in the fleet shoot by outside as the 
armada tries to halt its forward momentum.

ACKBAR
Take evasive action! Green Group, stick close to holding sector MV-7.

A Mon Calamari controller turns away from his screen and calls out to 
Ackbar, quite excited. The Admiral rushes over to the controller.

CONTROLLER
Admiral, we have enemy ships in sector 47.

On the screen can be seen the moon, Death Star, and the massive 
Imperial fleet. Ackbar moves to the comlink.

ACKBAR
It's a trap!

LANDO	 (over comlink)
Fighters coming in.

There is much excitement on the bridge as the attack begins.

The Millennium Falcon and several squads of Rebel fighters head into an 
armada of TIE fighters. The sky explodes as a fierce dogfight ensues in 
and around the giant Rebel cruisers.

REBEL PILOT
There's too many of them!

LANDO
Accelerate to attack speed! Draw their fire away from the cruisers.

WEDGE
Copy, Gold Leader.

The battle continues around the giant cruisers.

98   INT DEATH STAR - EMPEROR'S THRONE ROOM

Through the round window behind the Emperor's throne can be seen the 
distant flashes of the space battle in progress.

EMPEROR
Come, boy. See for yourself.

The Emperor is sitting in his throne, with Vader standing at his side. 
Luke moves to look through a small section of the window.

EMPEROR
From here you will witness the final destruction of the Alliance, and 
the end of your insignificant Rebellion.

Luke is in torment. He glances at his lightsaber sitting on the armrest 
of the throne. The Emperor watches him and smiles, touches the 
lightsaber.

EMPEROR
You want this, don't you? The hate is swelling in you now. Take your 
Jedi weapon. Use it. I am unarmed. Strike me down with it. Give in to 
your anger. With each passing moment, you make yourself more my 
servant.

Vader watches Luke in his agony.

LUKE
No!

EMPEROR
It is unavoidable. It is your destiny. You, like your father, are now 
mine!

99   EXT FOREST - GENERATOR BUNKER

Han, Leia, Chewie, and the rest of the strike team are led out of the 
bunker by their captors. The surrounding area, deserted before, is now 
crowded with two-legged Imperial walkers and hundreds of Imperial 
troops. The situation looks hopeless.

STORMTROOPER
All right, move it! I said move it! Go on!

From the undergrowth beyond the clearing comes a wild series of beeps 
and whistles. 
And --

THREEPIO
Hello! I say, over there! Were you looking for me?

BUNKER COMMANDER
Bring those two down here!

STORMTROOPER
Let's go!

Artoo and Threepio are standing near one of the big trees. As six 
Imperial stormtroopers rush over to take them captive, the two droids 
duck out of sight behind the tree.

THREEPIO
Well, they're on their way. Artoo, are you sure this was a good idea?

STORMTROOPER
Freeze! Don't move!

THREEPIO
We surrender.

The stormtroopers come around the tree and find the two droids waiting 
quietly to be taken. As the Imperial troops move to do that, however, a 
band of Ewoks drops down from above and overpowers them.

THREEPIO
Ohhh! Stand back, Artoo.

In a nearby tree, an Ewok raises a horn to his lips and sounds the EWOK 
ATTACK CALL. All hell breaks loose as hundreds of Ewoks throw their 
fuzzy bodies into the fray against the assembled stormtroopers and 
their awesome two-legged walkers. Biker scouts dart about blasting 
Ewoks, only to be crushed by a volley of rocks tossed by Ewoks from the 
trees above.

In the confusion of the battle, Han and Leia break away and dive for 
the cover of the bunker door as explosions erupt around them. Han goes 
to the bunker door control panel.

LEIA
The code's changed. We need Artoo!

HAN
Here's the terminal.

LEIA	 (into comlink)
Artoo, where are you? We need you at the bunker right away.

Artoo and Threepio are hiding behind a log as the battle ragesaround 
them. Suddenly the stubby little astrodroid lets out a series of 
whistles and shoots off across the battlefield. Threepio, panicked, 
runs after him.

THREEPIO
Going? What do you mean, you're going. But-- but going where, Artoo? 
No, what! Artoo! Oh, this is no time for heroics. Come back!

Biker scouts race around and over the two droids, blasting away at the 
little Ewoks as the furries scurry for cover.

A group of Ewoks have moved a primitive catapult into position. They 
fire off a large boulder that hits one of the walkers. The walker turns 
and heads for the catapult, blasting away with both guns. The Ewoks 
abandon their weapons and flee in all directions. Just as the walker 
moves in to stomp the catapult, Ewoks drop vines restraining two huge 
logs that swing down and smash thewalker's head flat.

A line of Ewoks hang desperately to a vine that is hooked to a walker's 
foot. As the walker moves along, the fuzzy creatures are dragged 
behind.

Two speeder bikes chase Ewoks through the underbrush. As the scouts 
round a tree, they are knocked off their bikes by a vinetied between 
two trees.

100  EXT SPACE

The Falcon and other Rebel fighters are engaged in a ferocious combat 
with Imperial TIE fighters, the battle raging around thecruisers of the 
Rebel armada.

101  INT MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT
Lando is in radio communication with the pilots of the other Rebel 
squads.

LANDO
Watch yourself, Wedge! Three from above!

WEDGE
Red Three, Red Two, pull in!

RED TWO
Got it!

RED THREE
Three of them coming in, twenty degrees!

WEDGE
Cut to the left! I'll take the leader! They're heading for the medical 
frigate.

Lando steers the Falcon through a complete flip, as his crew fires at 
the TIEs from the belly guns.

NAVIGATOR
Pressure's steady.

The copilot Nien Nunb chatters an observation.

LANDO
Only the fighters are attacking.  I wonder what those Star Destroyers 
are waiting for.

102  EXT SPACE - IMPERIAL FLEET  

The giant Imperial Star Destroyer waits silently some distance from the 
battle. The Emperor's huge Super Star Destroyer rests in the middle of 
the fleet.

103  INT SUPER STAR DESTROYER - BRIDGE

Admiral Piett and two fleet commanders watch the battle at the huge 
window of the Super Star Destroyer bridge.

COMMANDER
We're in attack position now, sir.

PIETT
Hold here.

COMMANDER
We're not going to attack?

PIETT
I have my orders from the Emperor himself. He has something special 
planned for them. We only need to keep them from escaping.

104  INT EMPEROR'S TOWER - THRONE ROOM

The Emperor, Vader, and a horrified Luke watch the aerial battle 
fireworks out the window and on the viewscreens. Another Rebel ship 
explodes against the protective shield.

EMPEROR
As you can see, my young apprentice, your friends have failed. Now 
witness the firepower of this fully armed and operational battle 
station.
(into comlink)
Fire at will, Commander.

Luke, in shock, looks out across the surface of the Death Star to the 
Rebel fleet beyond.

105  INT DEATH STAR - CONTROL ROOM

Controllers pull back on several switches. Commander Jerjerrod stands 
over them.

JERJERROD
Fire!

106  INT DEATH STAR - BLAST CHAMBER

A button is pressed, which switches on a panel of lights. A hooded 
Imperial soldier reaches overhead and pulls a lever. A huge beam of 
light emanates from a long shaft. Two stormtroopers stand to one side 
at a control panel.

107  EXT DEATH STAR

The giant laser dish on the completed half of the Death Star begins to 
glow; Then a powerful beams shoots out toward the aerial battle.

108  EXT SPACE - AIR BATTLE

The air is thick with giant ships. In among them, Rebel X-wings 
dogfight with Imperial TIE fighters. Now an enormous Rebel cruiser is 
hit by the Death Star beam and is blown to dust.

The Millennium Falcon roars over CAMERA, followed closely byseveral TIE 
fighters.

109  INT MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

The ship is buffeted by the tremendous explosion of the Rebel cruiser. 
Lando and his copilot are stunned by the sight of the Death Star 
firepower.

LANDO
That blast came from the Death Star! That thing's operational! 
(into comlink)
Home One, this is Gold Leader.

110  INT REBEL STAR CRUISER - BRIDGE

Ackbar stands amid the confusion on the wide bridge and speaks into the 
comlink.

ACKBAR
We saw it. All craft prepare to retreat.

LANDO
You won't get another chance at this, Admiral.

ACKBAR
We have no choice, General Calrissian. Our cruisers can't repel 
firepower of that magnitude.

LANDO
Han will have that shield down. We've got to give him more time.

111  EXT FOREST - GENERATOR BUNKER

Artoo and Threepio make it to the door, as Han and Leia provide cover 
fire.

THREEPIO
We're coming!

HAN
Come on! Come on!

THREEPIO
Oh, Artoo, hurry!

The little droid moves to the terminal and plugs in his computer arm. A 
large explosion hits near Artoo, knocking him head over heels, finally 
landing on his feet. The stubby astrodroid's head is spinning and 
smoldering. Suddenly there is a loud SPROOING and Han and Leia turn 
around to see Artoo with all his compartment doors open, and all of his 
appendages sticking out; water and smoke spurt out of the nozzles in 
his body. Han rushes to the terminal, as Threepio rushes to his wounded 
companion.

THREEPIO
My goodness! Artoo, why did you have to be so brave?

HAN
Well, I suppose I could hotwire this thing.

LEIA
I'll cover you.

Ewoks in handmade, primitive hanggliders drop rocks onto the 
stormtroopers, divebombing their deadly adversaries.  One is hit in the 
wing with laser fire and crashes. A walker lumbers forward, shooting 
laser blasts at frantic Ewoks running in all directions.  Two Ewoks are 
struck down by laser blasts.  One tries to awaken his friend, then 
realizes that he is dead.

112  EXT SPACE - DEATH STAR

The Rebel fleet continues to be picked off, from one side by the Death 
Star's deadly beam, from the other by the rampaging Imperial Star 
Destroyers.

113  INT MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Lando steers the Falcon wildly through an obstacle course of floating 
giants. He's been yelling into the comlink.

LANDO	 (desperately)
Yes! I said closer! Move as close as you can and engage those Star 
Destroyers at point-
blank range.

ACKBAR
At that close range, we won't last long against those Star Destroyers.

LANDO
We'll last longer then we will against that Death Star...and we might 
just take a few of
them with us.

The Rebel cruisers move very close to the Imperial Star Destroyers and 
begin to blast away at point-blank range. Tiny fighters race across the 
giant surfaces, against a backdrop of laser fire.

The control tower of a Star Destroyer is under attack.

REBEL PILOT
She's gonna blow!

Y-WING PILOT
I'm hit!

The damaged Y-wing plummets toward the Star Destroyer, and crashes into 
the control tower, exploding.

114  INT EMPEROR'S TOWER - THRONE ROOM

Out of the window and on the view screens, the Rebel fleet is being 
decimated in blinding explosions of light and debris. But in here there 
is no sound of battle. The Emperor turns to Luke.

EMPEROR
Your fleet has lost. And your friends on the Endor moon will not 
survive. There is no escape, my young apprentice. The Alliance will 
die...as will your friends.

Luke's eyes are full of rage. Vader watches him.

EMPEROR
Good. I can feel your anger. I am defenseless.  Take your weapon! 
Strike me down with all your hatred, and your journey towards the dark 
side will be complete.

Luke can resist no longer. The lightsaber flies into his hand. He 
ignites it in an instant and swings at the Emperor. Vader's lightsaber 
flashes into view, blocking Luke's blow before it can reach the 
Emperor. The two blades spark at contact. Luke turns to fight his 
father.

115  EXT FOREST

The battle rages on. Stormtroopers fire on Ewoks with sophisticated 
weapons while their furry little adversaries sneak up behind the 
Imperial troopers and bash them over the head with large clubs.

A walker marches through the undergrowth blasting Ewoks as it goes. An 
Ewok warrior gives the signal, and a pile of logs is cut loose. The 
logs tumble under the walker's feet, causing it to slip and slide until 
it finally topples over with a great crash.

A scout bike races past and is lassoed with a heavy vine. The other end 
of the vine is tied to a tree, and the bike swings around in ever-
tightening circles until it runs out of rope and
crashes into the trees with a huge explosion.

Chewie swings on a vine to the roof of one of the walkers. Two Ewoks 
cling to him. They land with a thud on the top of the lurching machine, 
then hang on for dear life. One of the Ewoks peeks through the window.

WALKER PILOT #1
Look!

PILOT #2
Get him off of there!

The walker pilot opens the hatch to see what's going on. He is yanked 
out and tossed overboard before he can scream. The two Ewoks jump into 
the cockpit and knock the second pilot unconscious. The Ewoks are 
thrown violently as the mighty machine careens out of control. Outside, 
Chewie is almost knocked overboard; he sticks his head into the hatch 
with a series of angry barks. The Ewoks are too busy and frightened to 
listen to the Wookiee's complaint. Chewie slips inside the walker.

Chewbacca's walker moves through the forest, firing laser blasts at 
unsuspecting stormtroopers, and destroying other Imperial walkers. The 
Ewoks shout and cheer as the giant machine helps turn the tide of the 
battle in their favor.

116  EXT FOREST - GENERATOR BUNKER

Han works furiously at the control panel; wires spark as he attempts to 
hotwire the door. He motions to Leia, who is blasting away at some 
stormtroopers.

HAN
I think I got it. I got it!

The three wires spark as the connection is made. With a LOUD WHOOSH, a 
second blast door crashes down in front of the first.

Han frowns and turns back to the wires again. Leia exchanges shots with 
stormtroopers in the bushes, then suddenly cries out in pain, her 
shoulder hit by a laser blast.

THREEPIO
Oh, Princess Leia, are you all right?

HAN
Let's see.

LEIA
It's not bad.

STORMTROOPER	 (OS)
Freeze!

They freeze.

THREEPIO
Oh, dear.

STORMTROOPER
Don't move!

Leia holds her laser gun ready, behind Han, out of view of the two 
stormtroopers moving toward them. Han and Leia's eyes lock; the moment 
seems suspended in time.

HAN
I love you.

Another shared look between them, as she smiles up at Han.

LEIA
I know.

STORMTROOPER
Hands up! Stand up!

Han stands up slowly and turns, revealing the gun in Leia's hand. She 
disposes of the stormtroopers in a flash. As Han turns back toward 
Leia, he looks up to see a giant walker approach and stand before him, 
its deadly weapons aimed right at him.

HAN	 (to Leia)
Stay back.

The hatch on top of the walker opens and Chewie sticks his head out and 
barks triumphantly.

HAN
Chewie!  Get down here!  She's wounded!  No, wait....  I got an idea.

117  INT EMPEROR'S TOWER - THRONE ROOM

Luke and Vader are engaged in a man-to-man duel of lightsabers even 
more vicious then the battle on Bespin. But the young Jedi has grown 
stronger in the interim, and now the advantage shifts to him. Vader is 
forced back, losing his balance, and is knocked down the stairs. Luke 
stands at the top of the stairs, ready to attack.

EMPEROR (laughing)
Good.  Use your aggressive feelings, boy!  Let the hate flow through 
you.

Luke looks momentarily toward the Emperor, then back to Vader, and 
realizes he is using the dark side. He steps back, turns off his 
lightsaber, and relaxes, driving the hate from his being.

VADER
Obi-Wan has taught you well.

LUKE
I will not fight you, father.

Vader walks back up the stairs to Luke.

VADER
You are unwise to lower your defenses.

Vader attacks, forcing Luke on the defensive. The young Jedi leaps in 
an amazing reverse flip up to the safety of the catwalk overhead. Vader 
stands below him.

LUKE
Your thoughts betray you, father. I feel the good in you...the 
conflict.

VADER
There is no conflict.

LUKE
You couldn't bring yourself to kill me before, and I don't believe 
you'll destroy me
now.

VADER
You underestimate the power of the dark side. If you will not fight, 
then you will meet
your destiny.

Vader throws the laser sword and it cuts through the supports holding 
the catwalk, then returns to Vader's hand. Luke tumbles to the ground 
in a shower of sparks and rolls out of sight under the Emperor's 
platform. Vader moves to find him.

EMPEROR	 (laughs)
Good.  Good.

118  EXT SPACE - AIR BATTLE

The two armadas, like their sea-bound ancestors, blast away at each 
other in individual point-blank confrontations. A Star Destroyer 
explodes. The Rebel victor limps away, its back half alive with a 
series of minor explosions. The Rebel cruiser manages to move in next 
to a second Star Destroyer before it explodes completely, taking the 
Imperial Star Destroyer with it. The Falcon and several fighters attack 
one of the larger Imperial ships.

LANDO
Watch out. Squad at .06.

REBEL PILOT
I'm on it, Gold Leader.

WEDGE
Good shot, Red Two.

LANDO
Now...come on, Han, old buddy. Don't let me down.

119  INT BUNKER - CONTROL ROOM

Controllers watch the main viewscreen on which a vague figure of an 
Imperial walker pilot can be seen. There is a great deal of static and 
interference.

HAN/PILOT	 (VO)
It's over, Commander. The Rebels have been routed. They're fleeing into 
the woods. We
need reinforcements to continue the pursuit.

The controllers cheer.

CONTROL ROOM COMMANDER
Send three squads to help. Open the back door.

SECOND COMMANDER
Yes, sir.

120  EXT FOREST - GENERATOR BUNKER

As the door to the bunker opens and the Imperial troops rush out, 
they're surprised to find themselves surrounded by Rebels, their 
weapons pointed at them. Ewoks holding bows and arrows appear on the 
roof of the bunker. The Imperial troops throw down their guns
as Han and Chewie rush inside the bunker with explosive charges.

121  INT BUNKER - CONTROL ROOM

Han, Chewie, and several troops rush into the control room and plant 
explosive charges on the control panels and rush out.

HAN
Throw me another charge.

122  INT EMPEROR'S TOWER - THRONE ROOM

Vader stalks the low-ceilinged area on the level below the throne, 
searching for Luke in the semi-darkness, his lightsaber held ready.

VADER
You cannot hide forever, Luke.

LUKE
I will not fight you.

VADER
Give yourself to the dark side. It is the only way you can save your 
friends. Yes, your
thoughts betray you. Your feelings for them are strong. Especially 
for...

Vader stops and senses something. Luke shuts his eyes tightly, in 
anguish.

VADER
Sister! So...you have a twin sister. Your feelings have now betrayed 
her, too. Obi-Wan
was wise to hide her from me. Now his failure is complete. If you will 
not turn to the dark
side, then perhaps she will.

LUKE
Never-r-r!

Luke ignites his lightsaber and screams in anger, rushing at hisfather 
with a frenzy we have not seen before. Sparks fly as Luke and Vader 
fight in the cramped area. Luke's hatred forces Vader to retreat out of 
the low area and across a bridge overlooking a vast elevator shaft. 
Each stroke of Luke's sword drives his father further toward defeat.

The Dark Lord is knocked to his knees, and as he raises his sword to 
block another onslaught, Luke slashes Vader's right hand off at the 
wrist, causing metal and electronic parts to fly from the mechanical 
stump. Vader's sword clatters uselessly away, over the
edge of the platform and into the bottomless shaft below. Luke moves 
over Vader and holds the blade of his sword to the Dark Lord's throat. 
The Emperor watches with uncontrollable, pleased agitation.

EMPEROR
Good! Your hate has made you powerful. Now, fulfill your destiny and 
take your father's
place at my side!

Luke looks at his father's mechanical hand, then to his own mechanical, 
black-gloved hand, and realizes how much he is becoming like his 
father. He makes the decision for which he has spent a lifetime in 
preparation. Luke steps back and hurls his lightsaber away.

LUKE
Never! I'll never turn to the dark side. You've failed, Your Highness. 
I am a Jedi,
like my father before me.

The Emperor's glee turns to rage.

EMPEROR
So be it...Jedi.

123  EXT FOREST - GENERATOR BUNKER

Han and several of the fighters run out of the bunker and race across 
the clearing.

HAN
Move! Move!

A shock wave knocks them flat as the bunker explodes, followed by a 
spectacular display as the huge shield-generator radar dish explodes 
along with the bunker.

124  INT REBEL STAR CRUISER - BRIDGE

Ackbar, sitting in his control chair, speaks into the radio.

ACKBAR
The shield is down! Commence attack on theDeath Star's main reactor.

LANDO
We're on our way. Red Group, Gold Group, all fighters follow me. 
(laughs)
Told you they'd do it!

The Falcon, followed by several smaller Rebel fighters, heads toward 
the unfinished superstructure of the Death Star.

125  INT EMPEROR'S TOWER - THRONE ROOM

Luke stands still, as the Emperor reaches the bottom of thestairs. The 
Emperor's laughter has turned to anger. He raises his arms toward Luke.

EMPEROR
If you will not be turned, you will be destroyed.

Blinding bolts of energy, evil lightning, shoot from the Emperor's 
hands at Luke. Even in his surprise, the young Jedi tries to use the 
Force to deflect them. At first he is half successful, but after a 
moment the bolts of energy are coming with such speed and power the 
young Jedi shrinks before them, his knees buckling. The wounded Vader 
struggles to his feet, and moves to stand at his master's side.

EMPEROR
Young fool...only now, at the end, do you understand.

Luke is almost unconscious beneath the continuing assault of the 
Emperor's lightning. He clutches a canister to keep from falling into 
the bottomless shaft as the bolts tear through him.

EMPEROR
Your feeble skills are no match for the power of the dark side. You 
have paid the price for
your lack of vision.

Luke writhes on the floor in unbearable pain, reaching weakly up toward 
where Vader stands watching.

LUKE	 (groans)
Father, please. Help me.

Again Vader stands, watching Luke. He looks at his master, the Emperor, 
then back to Luke on the floor.

EMPEROR
Now, young Skywalker...you will die.

Although it would not have seemed possible, the outpouring of bolts 
from the Emperor's fingers actually increases in intensity, the sound 
screaming through the room. Luke's body writhes in pain.

Vader grabs the Emperor from behind, fighting for control of the robed 
figure despite the Dark Lord's weakened body and gravely weakened arm. 
The Emperor struggles in his embrace, his bolt-shooting hands now 
lifted high, away from Luke. Now the white lightning arcs back to 
strike at Vader. He stumbles with his load as the sparks rain off his 
helmet and flow down over his black cape. He holds his evil master high 
over his head and walks to the edge of the abyss at the central core of 
the throne room. With one final burst of his once awesome strength, 
Darth Vader hurls the Emperor's body into the bottomless shaft.

The Emperor's body spins helplessly into the void, arcing as it falls 
into the abyss. Finally, when the body is far down the shaft, it 
explodes, creating a rush of air through the room.Vader's cape is 
whipped by the wind and he staggers, and collapses toward the 
bottomless hole. Luke crawls to his father's side and pulls him away 
from the edge of the abyss to safety. Both the young Jedi and the giant 
warrior are too weak to move.

126  EXT/INT - SPACE BATTLE - FIGHTER AND DEATH STAR

Rebel fighters follow the Falcon across the surface of the Death Star 
to the unfinished portion, where they dive into the superstructure of 
the giant battle station, followed by many TIE fighters.

WEDGE
I'm going in.

LANDO
Here goes nothing.

Three X-wings lead the chase through the ever-narrowing shaft, followed 
by the Falcon and four other fighters, plus TIE fighters who 
continually fire at the Rebels. Lights reflect off the pilot's faces as 
they race through the dark shaft.

LANDO
Now lock onto the strongest power source. It should be the power 
generator.

WEDGE
Form up. And stay alert. We could run out of space real fast.

The fighters and the Falcon race through the tunnel, still pursued by 
the TIE fighters. One of the X-wings is hit from behind and explodes.

LANDO
Split up and head back to the surface. See if you can get a few of 
those TIE fighters to
follow you.

PILOT
Copy, Gold Leader.

The Rebel ships peel off pursued by three of the TIE's, while Lando and 
Wedge continue through the main tunnel. It narrows, and the Falcon 
scrapes the side dangerously. Two other TIE fighters continue to blast 
away at them.

LANDO
That was too close.

Nien Nunb agrees. The battle between the Rebel and Imperial fleet rages 
on. Several cruisers fire at the giant Super Star Destroyer.

127  INT REBEL STAR CRUISER - BRIDGE

ACKBAR
We've got to give those fighters more time. Concentrate all fire on 
that Super Star Destroyer.

X-wings pilots head across the surface of the huge battleship.

128  INT VADER'S STAR DESTROYER - BRIDGE

Admiral Piett and a commander stand at the window, looking out to the 
battle. They look concerned.

CONTROLLER
Sir, we've lost our bridge deflector shield.

PIETT
Intensify the forward batteries. I don't want anything to get through.

The commander is looking out of the window where a damaged Rebel 
fighter is out of control and heading directly toward the bridge.

PIETT
Intensify forward firepower!

COMMANDER
It's too late!

The Rebel pilot screams as his ship hits the Star Destroyer, causing a 
huge explosion. The giant battle ship loses control, crashes into the 
Death Star, and explodes.

129  INT REBEL STAR CRUISER - BRIDGE

There is excitement on the bridge as the battle rages on all sides. 
They cheer as the giant Star Destroyer blows up.

130  INT DEATH STAR - MAIN DOCKING BAY

Chaos. For the first time, the Death Star is rocked by explosions as 
the Rebel fleet, no longer backed against a wall, zooms over, unloading 
a heavy barrage. Imperial troops run in all directions, confused and 
desperate to escape.

In the midst of this uproar, Luke is trying to carry the enormous 
deadweight of his father's weakening body toward an Imperial shuttle. 
Finally, Luke collapses from the strain. The explosions grow louder as 
Vader draws him closer.

VADER	 (a whisper)
Luke, help me take this mask off.

LURE
But you'll die.

VADER
Nothing can stop that now. Just for once... let me look on you with my 
own eyes.

Slowly, hesitantly, Luke removes the mask from his father's face. There 
beneath the scars is an elderly man. His eyes do not focus. But the 
dying man smiles at the sight before him.

ANAKIN	 (very weak)
Now...go, my son. Leave me.

LUKE
No. You're coming with me. I can't leave you here. I've got to save 
you.

ANAKIN
You already have, Luke. You were right about me. Tell your sister...you 
were right.

LUKE
Father...I won't leave you.

Darth Vader, Anakin Skywalker...Luke's father, dies.

A huge explosion rocks the docking bay. Slowly, Luke rises and, half 
carrying, half dragging the body of his father, stumbles toward a 
shuttle.

131  EXT DEATH STAR

The Millennium Falcon leads a swerving bomb run through the immense 
superstructure of the half-built Death Star. The Rebel Star Cruisers 
outside continually bombard the huge station. And each direct hit is 
answered by resonating, chain-reaction explosions within the station 
itself.

132  INT MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT AND GUN PORTS

Lando's crew fires away at the pursuing TIE fighters as the dashing 
Baron of Bespin and his alien copilot home in on the main reactor 
shaft. It is awesome. A lone X-wing is just in front of the Falcon.

WEDGE
There it is!

LANDO
All right, Wedge. Go for the power regulator on the north tower.

WEDGE
Copy, Gold Leader. I'm already on my way out.

The X-wing heads for the top of the huge reactor and fires several 
proton torpedoes at the power regulator, causing a series of small 
explosions.

The Falcon heads for the main reactor, and when it is dangerously 
close, Lando fires the missiles, which shoot out of the Falcon with a 
powerful roar, and hit directly at the center of the main reactor.

He maneuvers the Falcon out of the winding superstructure just ahead of 
the continuing chain of explosions.

133  INT REBEL STAR CRUISER - BRIDGE

Ackbar and other Mon Calamari lean on the railing of the bridge, 
watching the large screen showing the Death Star in the main briefing 
room.

ACKBAR
Move the fleet away from the Death Star.

134  EXT DEATH STAR

An Imperial shuttle, with Luke alone in the cockpit, rockets out of the 
main docking bay as that entire section of the Death Star is blown 
away.

Finally, just as it looks like the Falcon will not make it, Lando 
expertly pilots the craft out of the exploding superstructure and 
whizzes toward the Sanctuary Moon, only a moment before the Death Star 
supernovas into oblivion.

135  INT MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Lando and Nien Nunb laugh and cheer in relief.

136  EXT ENDOR FOREST

Han and Leia, Chewie, the droids, the Rebel troops, and the Ewoks all 
look to the sky as the Death Star reveals itself in a final flash of 
self-destruction. They all cheer.

THREEPIO
They did it!

Han looks town from the sky to Leia, a look of concern on his face. 
Leia continues to look at the sky as though listening for a silent 
voice.

HAN
I'm sure Luke wasn't on that thing when it blew.

LEIA
He wasn't. I can feel it.

HAN
You love him, don't you?

Leia smiles, puzzled.

LEIA
Yes.

HAN
All right. I understand. Fine. When he comes back, I won't get in the 
way.

She realizes his misunderstanding.

LEIA
Oh. No, it's not like that at all. He's my brother.

Han is stunned by this news. She smiles, and they embrace.

137  EXT ENDOR FOREST - NIGHT

Luke sets a torch to the logs stacked under a funeral pyre where his 
father's body lies, again dressed in black mask and helmet. He stands, 
watching sadly, as the flames leap higher to consume Darth Vader -- 
Anakin Skywalker.

In the sky above, fireworks explode and Rebel fighters zoom above the 
forest.

138  EXT EWOK VILLAGE SQUARE - NIGHT

A huge bonfire is the centerpiece of a wild celebration. Rebels and 
Ewoks rejoice in the warm glow of firelight, drums beating, singing, 
dancing, and laughing in the communal language of victory and 
liberation.

Lando runs in and is enthusiastically hugged by Han and Chewie. Then, 
finally, Luke arrives and the friends rush to greet and embrace him. 
They stand close, this hardy group, taking comfort in each other's 
touch, together to the end.

Rebels and Ewoks join together in dancing and celebration. The original 
group of adventurers watch from the sidelines. Only Luke seems 
distracted, alone in their midsts, his thoughts elsewhere.

He looks off to the side and sees three shimmering, smiling figures at 
the edge of the shadows: Ben Kenobi, Yoda, and Anakin Skywalker.

FADE OUT

A long time ago, in a galaxy far, far, away...

A vast sea of stars serves as the backdrop for the main title. 
War drums echo through the heavens as a rollup slowly crawls 
into infinity.

It is a period of civil war. Rebel spaceships, 
striking from a hidden base, have won their first 
victory against the evil Galactic Empire.

During the battle, Rebel spies managed to steal 
secret plans to the Empire's ultimate weapon, the 
Death Star, an armored space station with enough 
power to destroy an entire planet.

Pursued by the Empire's sinister agents, Princess 
Leia races home aboard her starship, custodian of 
the stolen plans that can save her people and 
restore freedom to the galaxy...

The awesome yellow planet of Tatooine emerges from a total 
eclipse, her two moons glowing against the darkness. A tiny 
silver spacecraft, a Rebel Blockade Runner firing lasers 
from the back of the ship, races through space. It is pursed 
by a giant Imperial Stardestroyer. Hundreds of deadly 
laserbolts streak from the Imperial Stardestroyer, causing 
the main solar fin of the Rebel craft to disintegrate.

INT. REBEL BLOCKADE RUNNER - MAIN PASSAGEWAY

An explosion rocks the ship as two robots, Artoo-Detoo (R2-
D2) and See-Threepio (C-3PO) struggle to make their way 
through the shaking, bouncing passageway. Both robots are 
old and battered. Artoo is a short, claw-armed tripod. His 
face is a mass of computer lights surrounding a radar eye. 
Threepio, on the other hand, is a tall, slender robot of 
human proportions. He has a gleaming bronze-like metallic 
surface of an Art Deco design.

Another blast shakes them as they struggle along their way.

THREEPIO
Did you hear that? They've shut down 
the main reactor. We'll be destroyed 
for sure. This is madness!

Rebel troopers rush past the robots and take up positions in 
the main passageway. They aim their weapons toward the door.

THREEPIO
We're doomed!

The little R2 unit makes a series of electronic sounds that 
only another robot could understand.

THREEPIO
There'll be no escape for the Princess 
this time.

Artoo continues making beeping sounds. Tension mounts as 
loud metallic latches clank and the scream of heavy equipment 
are heard moving around the outside hull of the ship.

THREEPIO
What's that?

EXT. SPACECRAFT IN SPACE

The Imperial craft has easily overtaken the Rebel Blockade 
Runner. The smaller Rebel ship is being drawn into the 
underside dock of the giant Imperial starship.

INT. REBEL BLOCKADE RUNNER

The nervous Rebel troopers aim their weapons. Suddenly a 
tremendous blast opens up a hole in the main passageway and 
a score of fearsome armored spacesuited stormtroopers make 
their way into the smoke-filled corridor.

In a few minutes the entire passageway is ablaze with 
laserfire. The deadly bolts ricochet in wild random patterns 
creating huge explosions. Stormtroopers scatter and duck 
behind storage lockers. Laserbolts hit several Rebel soldiers 
who scream and stagger through the smoke, holding shattered 
arms and faces.

An explosion hits near the robots.

THREEPIO
I should have known better than to 
trust the logic of a half-sized 
thermocapsulary dehousing assister...

Artoo counters with an angry rebuttal as the battle rages 
around the two hapless robots.

EXT. TATOOINE - DESERT WASTELAND - DAY

A death-white wasteland stretches from horizon to horizon. 
The tremendous heat of two huge twin suns settle on a lone 
figure, Luke Skywalker, a farm boy with heroic aspirations 
who looks much younger than his eighteen years. His shaggy 
hair and baggy tunic give him the air of a simple but lovable 
lad with a prize-winning smile.

A light wind whips at him as he adjusts several valves on a 
large battered moisture vaporator which sticks out of the 
desert floor much like an oil pipe with valves. He is aided 
by a beatup tread-robot with six claw arms. The little robot 
appears to be barely functioning and moves with jerky motions.  
A bright sparkle in the morning sky catches Luke's eye and 
he instinctively grabs a pair of electrobinoculars from his 
utility belt. He stands transfixed for a few moments studying 
the heavens, then dashed toward his dented, crudely repaired 
Landspeeder (an auto-like transport that travels a few feet 
above the ground on a magnetic-field). He motions for the 
tiny robot to follow him.

LUKE
Hurry up! Come with me! What are you 
waiting for?! Get in gear!

The robot scoots around in a tight circle, stops short, and 
smoke begins to pour out of every joint. Luke throws his 
arms up in disgust. Exasperated, the young farm boy jumps 
into his Landspeeder leaving the smoldering robot to hum 
madly.

INT. REBEL BLOCKADE RUNNER - MAIN HALLWAY

The awesome, seven-foot-tall Dark Lord of the Sith makes his 
way into the blinding light of the main passageway. This is 
Darth Vader, right hand of the Emperor. His face is obscured 
by his flowing black robes and grotesque breath mask, which 
stands out next to the fascist white armored suits of the 
Imperial stormtroopers. Everyone instinctively backs away 
from the imposing warrior and a deathly quiet sweeps through 
the Rebel troops. Several of the Rebel troops break and run 
in a frenzied panic.

INT. REBEL BLOCKADE RUNNER

A woman's hand puts a card into an opening in Artoo's dome.  
Artoo makes beeping sounds.

INT. REBEL BLOCKADE RUNNER

Threepio stands in a hallway, somewhat bewildered. Artoo is 
nowhere in sight. The pitiful screams of the doomed Rebel 
soldiers can be heard in the distance.

THREEPIO
Artoo! Artoo-Detoo, where are you?

A familiar clanking sound attacks Threepio's attention and 
he spots little Artoo at the end of the hallway in a smoke-
filled alcove. A beautiful young girl (about sixteen years 
old) stands in front of Artoo. Surreal and out of place, 
dreamlike and half hidden in the smoke, she finishes adjusting 
something on Artoo's computer face, then watches as the little 
robot joins his companion.

THREEPIO
At last! Where have you been?

Stormtroopers can be heard battling in the distance.

THREEPIO
They're heading in this direction. 
What are we going to do? We'll be 
sent to the spice mine of Kessel or 
smashed into who knows what!

Artoo scoots past his bronze friend and races down the 
subhallway. Threepio chases after him.

THREEPIO
Wait a minute, where are you going?

Artoo responds with electronic beeps.

INT. REBEL BLOCKADE RUNNER - CORRIDOR

The evil Darth Vader stands amid the broken and twisted bodies 
of his foes. He grabs a wounded Rebel Officer by the neck as 
an Imperial Officer rushes up to the Dark Lord.

IMPERIAL OFFICER
The Death Star plans are not in the 
main computer.

Vader squeezes the neck of the Rebel Officer, who struggles 
in vain.

VADER
Where are those transmissions you 
intercepted?

Vader lifts the Rebel off his feet by his throat.

VADER
What have you done with those plans?

REBEL OFFICER
We intercepted no transmissions. 
Aaah... This is a consular ship. 
Were on a diplomatic mission.

VADER
If this is a consular ship... were 
is the Ambassador?

The Rebel refuses to speak but eventually cries out as the 
Dark Lord begins to squeeze the officer's throat, creating a 
gruesome snapping and choking, until the soldier goes limp. 
Vader tosses the dead soldier against the wall and turns to 
his troops.

VADER
Commander, tear this ship apart until 
you've found those plans and bring 
me the Ambassador. I want her alive!

The stormtroopers scurry into the subhallways.

INT. REBEL BLOCKADE RUNNER - SUBHALLWAY

The lovely young girl huddles in a small alcove as the 
stormtroopers search through the ship. She is Princess Leia 
Organa, a member of the Alderaan Senate. The fear in her 
eyes slowly gives way to anger as the muted crushing sounds 
of the approaching stormtroopers grow louder. One of the 
troopers spots her.

TROOPER
There she is! Set for stun!

Leia steps from her hiding place and blasts a trooper with 
her laser pistol. She starts to run but is felled by a 
paralyzing ray. The troopers inspect her inert body.

TROOPER
She'll be all right. Inform Lord 
Vader we have a prisoner.

INT. REBEL BLOCKADE RUNNER - SUBHALLWAY

Artoo stops before the small hatch of an emergency lifepod. 
He snaps the seal on the main latch and a red warning light 
begins to flash. The stubby astro-robot works his way into 
the cramped four-man pod.

THREEPIO
Hey, you're not permitted in there. 
It's restricted. You'll be deactivated 
for sure..

Artoo beeps something to him.

THREEPIO
Don't call me a mindless philosopher, 
you overweight glob of grease! Now 
come out before somebody sees you.

Artoo whistles something at his reluctant friend regarding 
the mission he is about to perform.

THREEPIO
Secret mission? What plans? What are 
you talking about? I'm not getting 
in there!

Artoo isn't happy with Threepio's stubbornness, and he beeps 
and twangs angrily.

A new explosion, this time very close, sends dust and debris 
through the narrow subhallway. Flames lick at Threepio and, 
after a flurry of electronic swearing from Artoo, the lanky 
robot jumps into the lifepod.

THREEPIO
I'm going to regret this.

INT. IMPERIAL STARDESTROYER

On the main viewscreen, the lifepod carrying the two terrified 
robots speeds away from the stricken Rebel spacecraft.

CHIEF PILOT
There goes another one.

CAPTAIN
Hold your fire. There are no life 
forms. It must have been short-
circuited.

INT. LIFEPOD

Artoo and Threepio look out at the receding Imperial starship.  
Stars circle as the pod rotates through the galaxy.

THREEPIO
That's funny, the damage doesn't 
look as bad from out here.

Artoo beeps an assuring response.

THREEPIO
Are you sure this things safe?

EXT. TATOOINE - ANCHORHEAD SETTLEMENT - POWER STATION - DAY

Heat waves radiate from the dozen or so bleached white 
buildings. Luke pilots his Landspeeder through the dusty 
empty street of the tiny settlement. An old woman runs to 
get out of the way of the speeding vehicle, shaking her fist 
at Luke as he flies past.

WOMAN
I've told you kids to slow down!

INT. POWER STATION - DAY

Luke bursts into the power station, waking The Fixer, a rugged 
mechanic and Camie, a sexy, disheveled girl who has been 
asleep in his lap. They grumbled as he races through the 
office, yelling wildly.

FIXER
Did I hear a young noise blast through 
here?

CAMIE
It was just wormie on another rampage.

Luke bounces into a small room behind the office where Deak 
and Windy, two tough boys about the same age as Luke, are 
playing a computer pool-like game with Biggs, a burly, 
handsome boy a few years older than the rest. His flashy 
city attire is a sharp contrast to the loose-fitting tunics 
of the farm boys. A robot repairs some equipment in the 
background.

LUKE
Shape it up you guys!... Biggs?

Luke's surprise at the appearance of Biggs gives way to great 
joy and emotion. They give each other a great bear hug.

LUKE
I didn't know you were back! When 
did you get in?

BIGGS
Just now. I wanted to surprise you, 
hot shot. I thought you'd be here... 
certainly didn't expect you to be 
out working.
(he laughs)

LUKE
The Academy didn't change you 
much...but you're back so soon? Hey, 
what happened, didn't you get your 
commission?

Biggs has an air of cool that seems slightly phony.

BIGGS
Of course I got it. Signed aboard 
The Rand Ecliptic last week. First 
mate Biggs Darklighter at your 
service...
(he salutes)
...I just came to say good-bye to 
all you unfortunate landlocked 
simpletons.

Everyone laughs. The dazzling spectacle of his dashing friend 
is almost too much for Luke, but suddenly he snaps out of 
it.

LUKE
I almost forgot. There's a battle 
going on! Right here in our system. 
Come and look!

DEAK
Not again! Forget it.

EXT. TATOOINE - ANCHORHEAD - SETTLEMENT - POWER STATION - 
DAY

The group stumbles out into the stifling desert sun. Camie 
and The Fixer complain and are forced to shade their eyes. 
Luke has his binoculars out scanning the heavens.

LUKE
There they are!

Biggs takes the binoculars from Luke as the others strain to 
see something with the naked eye. Through the binoculars 
Biggs sees two small silver specks.

BIGGS
That's no battle, hot shot... they're 
just sitting there! Probably a 
freighter-tanker refueling.

LUKE
But there was a lot of firing 
earlier...

Camie grabs the binoculars away banging them against the 
building in the process. Luke grabs them.

LUKE
Hey, easy with those...

CAMIE
Don't worry about it, Wormie.

The Fixer gives Luke a hard look and the young farm boy shrugs 
his shoulders in resignation.

FIXER
I keep telling you, the Rebellion is 
a long way from here. I doubt if the 
Empire would even fight to keep this 
system. Believe me Luke, this planet 
is a big hunk of nothing...

Luke agrees, although it's obvious he isn't sure why. The 
group stumbles back into the power station, grumbling about 
Luke's ineptitude.

INT. REBEL BLOCKADE RUNNER - HALLWAY

Princess Leia is led down a low-ceilinged hallway by a squad 
of armored stormtroopers. Her hands are bound and she is 
brutally shoved when she is unable to keep up with the briskly 
marching troops. They stop in a smoky hallway as Darth Vader 
emerges from the shadows. The sinister Dark Lord stares hard 
at the frail young senator, but she doesn't move.

LEIA
Lord Vader, I should have known. 
Only you could be so bold. The 
Imperial Senate will not sit for 
this, when they hear you've attacked 
a diplomatic...

VADER
Don't play games with me, Your 
Highness. You weren't on any mercy 
mission this time. You passed directly 
through a restricted system. Several 
transmissions were beamed to this 
ship by Rebel spies. I want to know 
what happened to the plans they sent 
you.

LEIA
I don't know what you're talking 
about. I'm a member of the Imperial 
Senate on a diplomatic mission to 
Alderaan...

VADER
You're a part of the Rebel Alliance... 
and a traitor. Take her away!

Leia is marched away down the hallway and into the smoldering 
hole blasted in the side of the ship. An Imperial Commander 
turns to Vader.

COMMANDER
Holding her is dangerous. If word of 
this gets out, it could generate 
sympathy for the Rebellion in the 
senate.

VADER
I have traced the Rebel spies to 
her. Now she is my only link to find 
their secret base!

COMMANDER
She'll die before she tells you 
anything.

VADER
Leave that to me. Send a distress 
signal and then inform the senate 
that all aboard were killed!

Another Imperial Officer approaches Vader and the Commander. 
They stop and snap to attention.

SECOND OFFICER
Lord Vader, the battle station plans 
are not aboard this ship! And no 
transmissions were made. An escape 
pod was jettisoned during the 
fighting, but no life forms were 
aboard.

Vader turns to the Commander.

VADER
She must have hidden the plans in 
the escape pod. Send a detachment 
down to retrieve them. See to it 
personally, Commander. There'll be 
no one to stop us this time.

COMMANDER
Yes, sir.

EXT. SPACE

The Imperial Stardestroyer comes over the surface of the 
planet Tatooine.

EXT. TATOOINE - DESERT

Jundland, or "No Man's Land", where the rugged desert mesas 
meet the foreboding dune sea. The two helpless astro-droids 
kick up clouds of sand as they leave the lifepod and clumsily 
work their way across the desert wasteland. The lifepod in 
the distance rests half buried in the sand.

THREEPIO
How did I get into this mess? I really 
don't know how. We seem to be made 
to suffer. It's our lot in life.

Artoo answers with beeping sounds.

THREEPIO
I've got to rest before I fall apart. 
My joints are almost frozen.

Artoo continues to respond with beeping sounds.

THREEPIO
What a desolate place this is.

Suddenly Artoo whistles, makes a sharp right turn and starts 
off in the direction of the rocky desert mesas. Threepio 
stops and yells at him.

THREEPIO
Where are you going?

A stream of electronic noises pours forth from the small 
robot.

THREEPIO
Well, I'm not going that way. It's 
much too rocky. This way is much 
easier.

Artoo counters with a long whistle.

THREEPIO
What makes you think there are 
settlements over there?

Artoo continues to make beeping sounds.

THREEPIO
Don't get technical with me.

Artoo continues to make beeping sounds.

THREEPIO
What mission? What are you talking 
about? I've had just about enough of 
you! Go that way! You'll be 
malfunctioning within a day, you 
nearsighted scrap pile!

Threepio gives the little robot a kick and starts off in the 
direction of the vast dune sea.

THREEPIO
And don't let me catch you following 
me begging for help, because you 
won't get it.

Artoo's reply is a rather rude sound. He turns and trudges 
off in the direction of the towering mesas.

THREEPIO
No more adventures. I'm not going 
that way.

Artoo beeps to himself as he makes his way toward the distant 
mountains.

EXT. TATOOINE - DUNE SEA

Threepio, hot and tired, struggles up over the ridge of a 
dune; only to find more dunes, which seem to go on for endless 
miles.  He looks back in the direction of the now distant 
rock mesas.

THREEPIO
That malfunctioning little twerp. 
This is all his fault! He tricked me 
into going this way, but he'll do no 
better.

In a huff of anger and frustration, Threepio knocks the sand 
from his joints. His plight seems hopeless, when a glint of 
reflected light in the distance reveals an object moving 
towards him.

THREEPIO
Wait, what's that? A transport! I'm 
saved!

The bronze android waves frantically and yells at the 
approaching transport.

THREEPIO
Over here! Help! Please, help!

EXT. TATOOINE - ANCHORHEAD SETTLEMENT - POWER STATION - DAY

Luke and Biggs are walking and drinking a malt brew. Fixer 
and the others can be heard working inside.

LUKE
(Very animated)
...so I cut off my power, shut down 
the afterburners and came in low on 
Deak's trail. I was so close I thought 
I was going to fry my instruments. 
As it was I busted up the Skyhopper 
pretty bad. Uncle Owen was pretty 
upset. He grounded me for the rest 
of the season. You should have been 
there... it was fantastic.

BIGGS
You ought to take it easy Luke. You 
may be the hottest bushpilot this 
side of Mos Eisley, but those little 
Skyhoppers are dangerous. Keep it 
up, and one day, whammo, you're going 
to be nothing more than a dark spot 
on the down side of a canyon wall.

LUKE
Look who's talking. Now that you've 
been around those giant starships 
you're beginning to sound like my 
uncle. You've gotten soft in the 
city...

BIGGS
I've missed you kid.

LUKE
Well, things haven't been the same 
since you left, Biggs. It's been 
so... quiet.

Biggs looks around then leans close to Luke.

BIGGS
Luke, I didn't come back just to say 
good-bye... I shouldn't tell you 
this, but you're the only one I can 
trust... and if I don't come back, I 
want somebody to know.

Luke's eyes are wide with Biggs' seriousness and loyalty.

LUKE
What are you talking about?

BIGGS
I made some friends at the Academy.
(he whispers)
...when our frigate goes to one of 
the central systems, we're going to 
jump ship and join the Alliance...

Luke, amazed and stunned, is almost speechless.

LUKE
Join the Rebellion?! Are you kidding! 
How?

BIGGS
Quiet down will ya! You got a mouth 
bigger than a meteor crater!

LUKE
I'm sorry. I'm quiet.
(he whispers)
Listen how quiet I am. You can barely 
hear me...

Biggs shakes his head angrily and then continues.

BIGGS
My friend has a friend on Bestine 
who might help us make contact.

LUKE
You're crazy! You could wander around 
forever trying to find them.

BIGGS
I know it's a long shot, but if I 
don't find them I'll do what I can 
on my own... It's what we always 
talked about. Luke, I'm not going to 
wait for the Empire to draft me into 
service. The Rebellion is spreading 
and I want to be on the right side -- 
the side I believe in.

LUKE
And I'm stuck here...

BIGGS
I thought you were going to the 
Academy next term. You'll get your 
chance to get off this rock.

LUKE
Not likely! I had to cancel my 
application. There has been a lot of 
unrest among the Sandpeople since 
you left... they've even raided the 
outskirts of Anchorhead.

BIGGS
Your uncle could hold off a whole 
colony of Sandpeople with one blaster.

LUKE
I know, but he's got enough vaporators 
going to make the place pay off. He 
needs me for just one more season. I 
can't leave him now.

BIGGS
I feel for you, Luke, you're going 
to have to learn what seems to be 
important or what really is important. 
What good is all your uncle's work 
if it's taken over by the Empire?... 
You know they're starting to 
nationalize commerce in the central 
systems... it won't be long before 
your uncle is merely a tenant, slaving 
for the greater glory of the Empire.

LUKE
It couldn't happen here. You said it 
yourself. The Empire won't bother 
with this rock.

BIGGS
Things always change.

LUKE
I wish I was going... Are you going 
to be around long?

BIGGS
No, I'm leaving in the morning...

LUKE
Then I guess I won't see you.

BIGGS
Maybe someday... I'll keep a lookout.

LUKE
Well, I'll be at the Academy next 
season... after that who knows. I 
won't be drafted into the Imperial 
Starfleet that's for sure... Take 
care of yourself, you'll always be 
the best friend I've got.

BIGGS
So long, Luke.

Biggs turns away from his old friend and heads towards the 
power station.

EXT. TATOOINE - ROCK CANYON - SUNSET

The gargantuan rock formations are shrouded in a strange 
foreboding mist and the onimous sounds of unearthly creatures 
fill the air. Artoo moves cautiously through the creepy rock 
canyon, inadvertently making a loud clicking noise as he 
goes. He hears a distant, hard, metallic sound and stops for 
a moment. Convinced he is alone, he continues on his way.

In the distance, a pebble tumbles down the steep canyon wall 
and a small dark figure darts into the shadows. A little 
further up the canyon a slight flicker of light reveals a 
pair of eyes in the dark recesses only a few feet from the 
narrow path.

The unsuspecting robot waddles along the rugged trail until 
suddenly, out of nowhere, a powerful magnetic ray shoots out 
of the rocks and engulfs him in an eerie glow. He manages 
one short electronic squeak before he topples over onto his 
back. His bright computer lights flicker off, then on, then 
off again. Out of the rocks scurry three Jawas, no taller 
than Artoo. They holster strange and complex weapons as they 
cautiously approach the robot. They wear grubby cloaks and 
their faces are shrouded so only their glowing eyes can be 
seen. They hiss and make odd guttural sounds as they heave 
the heavy robot onto their shoulders and carry him off down 
the trail.

EXT. TATOOINE - ROCK CANYON - SANDCRAWLER - SUNSET

The eight Jawas carry Artoo out of the canyon to a huge tank-
like vehicle the size of a four-story house. They weld a 
small disk on the side of Artoo and then put him under a 
large tube on the side of the vehicle and the little robot 
is sucked into the giant machine.

The filthy little Jawas scurry like rats up small ladders 
and enter the main cabin of the behemoth transport.

INT. SANDCRAWLER - HOLD AREA

It is dim inside the hold area of the Sandcrawler. Artoo 
switches on a small floodlight on his forehead and stumbles 
around the scrap heap. The narrow beam swings across rusty 
metal rocket parts and an array of grotesquely twisted and 
maimed astro-robots. He lets out a pathetic electronic whimper 
and stumbles off toward what appears to be a door at the end 
of the chamber.

INT. SANDCRAWLER - PRISON AREA

Artoo enters a wide room with a four-foot ceiling. In the 
middle of the scrap heap sit a dozen or so robots of various 
shapes and sizes. Some are engaged in electronic conversation, 
while others simply mill about. A voice of recognition calls 
out from the gloom.

THREEPIO
Artoo-Detoo! It's you! It's you!

A battered Threepio scrambles up to Artoo and embraces him.

EXT. TATOOINE - ROCK CANYON - SANDCRAWLER - SUNSET

The enormous Sandcrawler lumbers off toward the magnificent 
twin suns, which are slowly setting over a distant mountain 
ridge.

EXT. TATOOINE - DESERT - DAY

Four Imperial stormtroopers mill about in front of the half-
buried lifepod that brought Artoo and Threepio to Tatooine. 
A trooper yells to an officer some distance away.

FIRST TROOPER
Someone was in the pod. The tracks 
go off in this direction.

A second trooper picks a small bit of metal out of the sand 
and gives it to the first trooper.

SECOND TROOPER
Look, sir -- droids.

EXT. TATOOINE - DUNES

The Sandcrawler moves slowly down a great sand dune.

INT. SANDCRAWLER

Threepio and Artoo noisily bounce along inside the cramped 
prison chamber. Artoo appears to be shut off.

THREEPIO
Wake up! Wake up!

Suddenly the shaking and bouncing of the Sandcrawler stops, 
creating quite a commotion among the mechanical men.  
Threepio's fist bangs the head of Artoo whose computer lights 
pop on as he begins beeping. At the far end of the long 
chamber a hatch opens, filling the chamber with blinding 
white light. a dozen or so Jawas make their way through the 
odd assortment of robots.

THREEPIO
We're doomed.

A Jawa starts moving toward them.

THREEPIO
Do you think they'll melt us down?

Artoo responds, making beeping sounds.

THREEPIO
Don't shoot! Don't shoot! Will this 
never end?

EXT. TATOOINE - DESERT - LARS HOMESTEAD - AFTERNOON

The Jawas mutter gibberish as they busily line up their 
battered captives, including Artoo and Threepio, in front of 
the enormous Sandcrawler, which is parked beside a small 
homestead consisting of three large holes in the ground 
surrounded by several tall moisture vaporators and one small 
adobe block house.

The Jawas scurry around fussing over the robots, straightening 
them up or brushing some dust from a dented metallic elbow. 
The shrouded little creatures smell horribly, attracting 
small insects to the dark areas when their mouths and nostrils 
should be.

Out of the shadows of a dingy side-building limps Owen Lars, 
a large burly man in his mid-fifties. His reddish eyes are 
sunken in a dust-covered face. As the farmer carefully 
inspects each robot, he is closely followed by his slump- 
shouldered nephew, Luke Skywalker. One of the vile little 
Jawas walks ahead of the farmer spouting an animated sales 
pitch in a queer, unintelligible language.

A voice calls out from one of the huge holes that form the 
homestead. Luke goes over to the edge and sees his Aunt Beru 
standing in the main courtyard.

BERU
Luke, tell Owen that if he gets a 
translator to be sure it speaks Bocce.

LUKE
It looks like we don't have much of 
a choice but I'll remind him.

Luke returns to his uncle as they look over the equipment 
for sale with the Jawa leader.

OWEN
I have no need for a protocol droid.

THREEPIO
(quickly)
Sir -- not in an environment such as 
this -- that's why I've also been 
programmed for over thirty secondary 
functions that...

OWEN
What I really need is a droid that 
understands the binary language of 
moisture vaporators.

THREEPIO
Vaporators! Sir -- My first job was 
programming binary load lifter... 
very similar to your vaporators. You 
could say...

OWEN
Do you speak Bocce?

THREEPIO
Of course I can, sir. It's like a 
second language for me... I'm as 
fluent in Bocce...

OWEN
All right shut up!
(turning to Jawa)
I'll take this one.

THREEPIO
Shutting up, sir.

OWEN
Luke, take these two over to the 
garage, will you? I want you to have 
both of them cleaned up before dinner.

LUKE
But I was going into Toshi Station 
to pick up some power converters...

OWEN
You can waste time with your friends 
when your chores are done. Now come 
on, get to it!

LUKE
All right, come on! And the red one, 
come on. Well, come on, Red, let's 
go.

As the Jawas start to lead the three remaining robots back 
into the Sandcrawler, Artoo lets out a pathetic little beep 
and starts after his old friend Threepio. He is restrained 
by a slimy Jawa, who zaps him with a control box.

Owen is negotiating with the head Jawa. Luke and the two 
robots start off for the garage when a plate pops off the 
head of the red astro-droid's head plate and it sparks wildly.

LUKE
Uncle Owen...

OWEN
Yeah?

LUKE
This R2 unit has a bad motivator. 
Look!

OWEN
(to the head Jawa)
Hey, what're you trying to push on 
us?

The Jawa goes into a loud spiel. Meanwhile, Artoo has sneaked 
out of line and is moving up and down trying to attract 
attention. He lets out with a low whistle. Threepio taps 
Luke on the shoulder.

THREEPIO
(pointing to Artoo)
Excuse me, sir, but that R2 unit is 
in prime condition. A real bargain.

LUKE
Uncle Owen...

OWEN
Yeah?

LUKE
What about that one?

OWEN
(to Jawa)
What about that blue one? We'll take 
that one.

With a little reluctance the scruffy dwarf trades the damaged 
astro-droid for Artoo.

LUKE
Yeah, take it away.

THREEPIO
Uh, I'm quite sure you'll be very 
pleased with that one, sir. He really 
is in first-class condition. I've 
worked with him before. Here he comes.

Owen pays off the whining Jawa as Luke and the two robots 
trudge off toward a grimy homestead entry.

LUKE
Okay, let's go.

THREEPIO
(to Artoo)
Now, don't you forget this! Why I 
should stick my neck out for you is 
quite beyond my capacity!

INT. LARS HOMESTEAD - GARAGE AREA - LATE AFTERNOON

The garage is cluttered and worn, but a friendly peaceful 
atmosphere permeates the low grey chamber. Threepio lowers 
himself into a large tub filled with warm oil. Near the 
battered Landspeeder little Artoo rests on a large battery 
with a cord to his face.

THREEPIO
Thank the maker! This oil bath is 
going to feel so good. I've got such 
a bad case of dust contamination, I 
can barely move!

Artoo beeps a muffled reply. Luke seems to be lost in thought 
as he runs his hand over the damaged fin of a small two-man 
Skyhopper spaceship resting in a low hangar off the garage. 
Finally Luke's frustrations get the better of him and he 
slams a wrench across the workbench.

LUKE
It just isn't fair. Oh, Biggs is 
right. I'm never gonna get out of 
here!

THREEPIO
Is there anything I might do to help?

Luke glances at the battered robot. A bit of his anger drains 
and a tiny smile creeps across his face.

LUKE
Well, not unless you can alter time, 
speed up the harvest, or teleport me 
off this rock!

THREEPIO
I don't think so, sir. I'm only a 
droid and not very knowledgeable 
about such things. Not on this planet, 
anyways. As a matter of fact, I'm 
not even sure which planet I'm on.

LUKE
Well, if there's a bright center to 
the universe, you're on the planet 
that it's farthest from.

THREEPIO
I see, sir.

LUKE
Uh, you can call me Luke.

THREEPIO
I see, sir Luke.

LUKE
(laughing)
Just Luke.

THREEPIO
And I am See-Threepio, human-cyborg 
relations, and this is my counterpart, 
Artoo-Detoo.

LUKE
Hello.

Artoo beeps in response. Luke unplugs Artoo and begins to 
scrape several connectors on the robot's head with a chrome 
pick. Threepio climbs out of the oil tub and begins wiping 
oil from his bronze body.

LUKE
You got a lot of carbon scoring here. 
It looks like you boys have seen a 
lot of action.

THREEPIO
With all we've been through, sometimes 
I'm amazed we're in as good condition 
as we are, what with the Rebellion 
and all.

LUKE
You know of the Rebellion against 
the Empire?

THREEPIO
That's how we came to be in your 
service, if you take my meaning, 
sir.

LUKE
Have you been in many battles?

THREEPIO
Several, I think. Actually, there's 
not much to tell. I'm not much more 
than an interpreter, and not very 
good at telling stories. Well, not 
at making them interesting, anyways.

Luke struggles to remove a small metal fragment from Artoo's 
neck joint. He uses a larger pick.

LUKE
Well, my little friend, you've got 
something jammed in here real good. 
Were you on a cruiser or...

The fragment breaks loose with a snap, sending Luke tumbling 
head over heels. He sits up and sees a twelve-inch three-
dimensional hologram of Leia Organa, the Rebel senator, being 
projected from the face of little Artoo. The image is a 
rainbow of colors as it flickers and jiggles in the dimly 
lit garage. Luke's mouth hangs open in awe.

LEIA
Help me, Obi-Wan Kenobi. You're my 
only hope.

LUKE
What's this?

Artoo looks around and sheepishly beeps an answer for Threepio 
to translate. Leia continues to repeat the sentence fragment 
over and over.

THREEPIO
What is what?!? He asked you a 
question...
(pointing to Leia)
What is that?

Artoo whistles his surprise as he pretends to just notice 
the hologram. He looks around and sheepishly beeps an answer 
for Threepio to translate. Leia continues to repeat the 
sentence fragment over and over.

LEIA
Help me, Obi-Wan Kenobi. You're my 
only hope. Help me, Obi-Wan Kenobi. 
You're my only hope.

THREEPIO
Oh, he says it's nothing, sir. Merely 
a malfunction. Old data. Pay it no 
mind.

Luke becomes intrigued by the beautiful girl.

LUKE
Who is she? She's beautiful.

THREEPIO
I'm afraid I'm not quite sure, sir.

LEIA
Help me, Obi-Wan Kenobi...

THREEPIO
I think she was a passenger on our 
last voyage. A person of some 
importance, sir -- I believe. Our 
captain was attached to...

LUKE
Is there more to this recording?

Luke reaches out for Artoo but he lets out several frantic 
squeaks and a whistle.

THREEPIO
Behave yourself, Artoo. You're going 
to get us in trouble. It's all right, 
you can trust him. He's our new 
master.

Artoo whistles and beeps a long message to Threepio.

THREEPIO
He says he's the property of Obi-Wan 
Kenobi, a resident of these parts. 
And it's a private message for him. 
Quite frankly, sir I don't know what 
he's talking about. Our last master 
was Captain Antilles, but with what 
we've been through, this little R2 
unit has become a bit eccentric.

LUKE
Obi-Wan Kenobi? I wonder if he means 
old Ben Kenobi?

THREEPIO
I beg your pardon, sir, but do you 
know what he's talking about?

LUKE
Well, I don't know anyone named Obi-
Wan, but old Ben lives out beyond 
the dune sea. He's kind of a strange 
old hermit.

Luke's gazes at the beautiful young princess for a few 
moments.

LUKE
I wonder who she is. It sounds like 
she's in trouble. I'd better play 
back the whole thing.

Artoo beeps something to Threepio.

THREEPIO
He says the restraining bolt has 
short circuited his recording system. 
He suggests that if you remove the 
bolt, he might be able to play back 
the entire recording.

Luke looks longingly at the lovely, little princess and hasn't 
really heard what Threepio has been saying.

LUKE
H'm? Oh, yeah, well, I guess you're 
too small to run away on me if I 
take this off! Okay.

Luke takes a wedged bar and pops the restraining bolt off 
Artoo's side.

LUKE
There you go.

The princess immediately disappears...

LUKE
Well, wait a minute. Where'd she go? 
Bring her back! Play back the entire 
message.

Artoo beeps an innocent reply as Threepio sits up in 
embarrassment.

THREEPIO
What message? The one you're carrying 
inside your rusty innards!

A women's voice calls out from another room.

AUNT BERU
Luke? Luke! Come to dinner!

Luke stands up and shakes his head at the malfunctioning 
robot.

LUKE
All right, I'll be right there, Aunt 
Beru.

THREEPIO
I'm sorry, sir, but he appears to 
have picked up a slight flutter.

Luke tosses Artoo's restraining bolt on the workbench and 
hurries out of the room.

LUKE
Well, see what you can do with him. 
I'll be right back.

THREEPIO
(to Artoo)
Just you reconsider playing that 
message for him.

Artoo beeps in response.

THREEPIO
No, I don't think he likes you at 
all.

Artoo beeps.

THREEPIO
No, I don't like you either.

INT. LARS HOMESTEAD - DINING AREA

Luke's Aunt Beru, a warm, motherly woman, fills a pitcher 
with blue fluid from a refrigerated container in the well-
used kitchen. She puts the pitcher on a tray with some bowls 
of food and starts for the dining area.

Luke sits with his Uncle Owen before a table covered with 
steaming bowls of food as Aunt Beru carries in a bowl of red 
grain.

LUKE
You know, I think that R2 unit we 
bought might have been stolen.

OWEN
What makes you think that?

LUKE
Well, I stumbled across a recording 
while I was cleaning him. He says he 
belongs to someone called Obi-Wan 
Kenobi.

Owen is greatly alarmed at the mention of his name, but 
manages to control himself.

LUKE
I thought he might have meant old 
Ben. Do you know what he's talking 
about? Well, I wonder if he's related 
to Ben.

Owen breaks loose with a fit of uncontrolled anger.

OWEN
That old man's just a crazy old 
wizard. Tomorrow I want you to take 
that R2 unit into Anchorhead and 
have its memory flushed. That'll be 
the end of it. It belongs to us now.

LUKE
But what if this Obi-Wan comes looking 
for him?

OWEN
He won't, I don't think he exists 
any more. He died about the same 
time as your father.

LUKE
He knew my father?

OWEN
I told you to forget it. Your only 
concern is to prepare the new droids 
for tomorrow. In the morning I want 
them on the south ridge working out 
those condensers.

LUKE
Yes, sir. I think those new droids 
are going to work out fine. In fact, 
I, uh, was also thinking about our 
agreement about my staying on another 
season. And if these new droids do 
work out, I want to transmit my 
application to the Academy this year.

Owen's face becomes a scowl, although he tries to suppress 
it.

OWEN
You mean the next semester before 
harvest?

LUKE
Sure, there're more than enough 
droids.

OWEN
Harvest is when I need you the most. 
Only one more season. This year we'll 
make enough on the harvest so I'll 
be able to hire some more hands. And 
then you can go to the Academy next 
year.

Luke continues to toy with his food, not looking at his uncle.

OWEN
You must understand I need you here, 
Luke.

LUKE
But it's a whole 'nother year.

OWEN
Look, it's only one more season.

Luke pushes his half-eaten plate of food aside and stands.

LUKE
Yeah, that's what you said last year 
when Biggs and Tank left.

AUNT BERU
Where are you going?

LUKE
It looks like I'm going nowhere. I 
have to finish cleaning those droids.

Resigned to his fate, Luke paddles out of the room. Owen 
mechanically finishes his dinner.

AUNT BERU
Owen, he can't stay here forever. 
Most of his friends have gone. It 
means so much to him.

OWEN
I'll make it up to him next year. I 
promise.

AUNT BERU
Luke's just not a farmer, Owen. He 
has too much of his father in him.

OWEN
That's what I'm afraid of.

EXT. TATOOINE - LARS HOMESTEAD

The giant twin suns of Tatooine slowly disappear behind a 
distant dune range. Luke stands watching them for a few 
moments, then reluctantly enters the doomed entrance to the 
homestead.

INT. LARS HOMESTEAD - GARAGE

Luke enters the garage to discover the robots nowhere in 
sight. He takes a small control box from his utility belt 
similar to the one the Jawas were carrying. He activates the 
box, which creates a low hum, and Threepio, letting out a 
short yell, pops up from behind the Skyhopper spaceship.

LUKE
What are you doing hiding there?

Threepio stumbles forward, but Artoo is still nowhere in 
sight.

THREEPIO
It wasn't my fault, sir. Please don't 
deactivate me. I told him not to go, 
but he's faulty, malfunctioning; 
kept babbling on about his mission.

LUKE
Oh, no!

Luke races out of the garage followed by Threepio.

EXT. TATOOINE - LARS HOMESTEAD

Luke rushes out of the small doomed entry to the homestead 
and searches the darkening horizon for the small triped astro-
robot. Threepio struggles out of the homestead and on the 
salt flat as Luke scans the landscape with his 
electrobinoculars.

THREEPIO
That R2 unit has always been a 
problem. These astro-droids are 
getting quite out of hand. Even I 
can't understand their logic at times.

LUKE
How could I be so stupid? He's nowhere 
in sight. Blast it!

THREEPIO
Pardon me, sir, but couldn't we go 
after him?

LUKE
It's too dangerous with all the 
Sandpeople around. We'll have to 
wait until morning.

Owen yells up from the homestead plaza.

OWEN
Luke, I'm shutting the power down 
for the night.

LUKE
All right, I'll be there in a few 
minutes. Boy, am I gonna get it.

He takes one final look across the dim horizon.

LUKE
You know that little droid is going 
to cause me a lot of trouble.

THREEPIO
Oh, he excels at that, sir.

INT. LARS HOMESTEAD - PLAZA

Morning slowly creeps into the sparse but sparkling oasis of 
the open courtyard. The idyll is broken be the yelling of 
Uncle Owen, his voice echoing throughout the homestead.

OWEN
Luke? Luke? Luke? Where could he be 
loafing now!

INT. LARS HOMESTEAD - KITCHEN

The interior of the kitchen is a worm glow as Aunt Beru 
prepares the morning breakfast. Owen enters in a huff.

OWEN
Have you seen Luke this morning?

AUNT BERU
He said he had some things to do 
before he started today, so he left 
early.

OWEN
Uh? Did he take those two new droids 
with him?

AUNT BERU
I think so.

OWEN
Well, he'd better have those units 
in the south range repaired be midday 
or there'll be hell to pay!

EXT. TATOOINE - DESERT WASTELAND - LUKE'S SPEEDER - DAY

The rock and sand of the desert floor are a blur as Threepio 
pilots the sleek Landspeeder gracefully across the vast 
wasteland.

INT./EXT. LUKE'S SPEEDER - DESERT WASTELAND - TRAVELING - 
DAY

Luke leans over the back of the speeder and adjusts something 
in the motor compartment.

LUKE
(yelling)
How's that.

Threepio signals that is fine and Luke turns back into the 
wind-whipped cockpit and pops the canopy shut.

LUKE
Old Ben Kenobi lives out in this 
direction somewhere, but I don't see 
how that R2 unit could have come 
this far. We must have missed him. 
Uncle Owen isn't going to take this 
very well.

THREEPIO
Sir, would it help if you told him 
it was my fault.

LUKE
(brightening)
Sure. He needs you. He'd probably 
only deactivate you for a day or 
so...

THREEPIO
Deactivate! Well, on the other hand 
if you hadn't removed his restraining 
bolt...

LUKE
Wait, there's something dead ahead 
on the scanner. It looks like our 
droid... hit the accelerator.

EXT. TATOOINE - ROCK MESA - DUNE SEA - COASTLINE - DAY

From high on a rock mesa, the tiny Landspeeder can be seen 
gliding across the desert floor. Suddenly in the foreground 
two weather-beaten Sandpeople shrouded in their grimy desert 
cloaks peer over the edge of the rock mesa. One of the 
marginally human creatures raises a long ominous laser rifle 
and points it at the speeder but the second creature grabs 
the gun before it can be fired.

The Sandpeople, or Tusken Raiders as they're sometimes called, 
speak in a coarse barbaric language as they get into an 
animated argument. The second Tusken Raider seems to get in 
the final word and the nomads scurry over the rocky terrain.

EXT. TATOOINE - ROCK MESA - CANYON

The Tusken Raider approaches two large Banthas standing tied 
to a rock. The monstrous, bear-like creatures are as large 
as elephants, with huge red eyes, tremendous looped horns, 
and long, furry, dinosaur-like tails. The Tusken Raiders 
mount saddles strapped to the huge creatures' shaggy backs 
and ride off down the rugged bluff.

EXT. TATOOINE - ROCK CANYON - FLOOR

The speeder is parked on the floor of a massive canyon. Luke, 
with his long laser rifle slung over his shoulder, stands 
before little Artoo.

LUKE
Hey, whoa, just where do you think 
you're going?

The little droid whistles a feeble reply, as Threepio poses 
menacingly behind the little runaway.

THREEPIO
Master Luke here is your rightful 
owner. We'll have no more of this 
Obi-Wan Kenobi jibberish... and don't 
talk to me about your mission, either. 
You're fortunate he doesn't blast 
you into a million pieces right here.

LUKE
Well, come on. It's getting late. I 
only hope we can get back before 
Uncle Owen really blows up.

THREEPIO
If you don't mind my saying so, sir, 
I think you should deactivate the 
little fugitive until you've gotten 
him back to your workshop.

LUKE
No, he's not going to try anything.

Suddenly the little robot jumps to life with a mass of frantic 
whistles and screams.

LUKE
What's wrong with him now?

THREEPIO
Oh my... sir, he says there are 
several creatures approaching from 
the southeast.

Luke swings his rifle into position and looks to the south.

LUKE
Sandpeople! Or worst! Come on, let's 
have a look. Come on.

EXT. TATOOINE - ROCK CANYON - RIDGE - DAY

Luke carefully makes his way to the top of a rock ridge and 
scans the canyon with his electrobinoculars. He spots the 
two riderless Banthas. Threepio struggles up behind the young 
adventurer.

LUKE
There are two Banthas down there but 
I don't see any... wait a second, 
they're Sandpeople all right. I can 
see one of them now.

Luke watches the distant Tusken Raider through his 
electrobinoculars. Suddenly something huge moves in front of 
his field of view. Before Luke or Threepio can react, a large, 
gruesome Tusken Raider looms over them. Threepio is startled 
and backs away, right off the side if the cliff. He can be 
heard for several moments as he clangs, bangs and rattles 
down the side of the mountain.

The towering creature brings down his curved, double-pointed 
gaderffii -- the dreaded axe blade that has struck terror in 
the heart of the local settlers. But Luke manages to block 
the blow with his laser rifle, which is smashed to pieces. 
The terrified farm boy scrambles backward until he is forced 
to the edge of a deep crevice. The sinister Raider stands 
over him with his weapon raised and lets out a horrible 
shrieking laugh.

EXT. TATOOINE - ROCK CANYON - FLOOR - DAY

Artoo forces himself into the shadows of a small alcove in 
the rocks as the vicious Sandpeople walk past carrying the 
inert Luke Skywalker, who is dropped in a heap before the 
speeder.  The Sandpeople ransack the speeder, throwing parts 
and supplies in all directions. Suddenly they stop. Then 
everything is quiet for a few moments. A great howling moan 
is heard echoing throughout the canyon which sends the 
Sandpeople fleeing in terror.

Artoo moves even tighter into the shadows as the slight 
swishing sound that frightened off the Sandpeople grows even 
closer, until a shabby old desert-rat-of-a-man appears and 
leans over Luke. His ancient leathery face, cracked and 
weathered by exotic climates is set off by dark, penetrating 
eyes and a scraggly white beard. Ben Kenobi squints his eyes 
as he scrutinizes the unconscious farm boy. Artoo makes a 
slight sound and Ben turns and looks right at him.

BEN
Hello there! Come here my little 
friend. Don't be afraid.

Artoo waddles over to were Luke lies crumpled in a heap and 
begins to whistle and beep his concern. Ben puts his hand on 
Luke's forehead and he begins to come around.

BEN
Don't worry, he'll be all right.

LUKE
What happened?

BEN
Rest easy, son, you've had a busy 
day. You're fortunate you're still 
in one piece.

LUKE
Ben? Ben Kenobi! Boy, am I glad to 
see you!

BEN
The Jundland wastes are not to be 
traveled lightly. Tell me young Luke, 
what brings you out this far?

LUKE
Oh, this little droid! I think he's 
searching for his former master... 
I've never seen such devotion in a 
droid before... there seems to be no 
stopping him. He claims to be the 
property of an Obi-Wan Kenobi. Is he 
a relative of yours? Do you know who 
he's talking about?

Ben ponders this for a moment, scratching his scruffy beard.

BEN
Obi-Wan Kenobi... Obi-Wan? Now thats 
a name I haven't heard in a long 
time... a long time.

LUKE
I think my uncle knew him. He said 
he was dead.

BEN
Oh, he's not dead, not... not yet.

LUKE
You know him!

BEN
Well of course, of course I know 
him. He's me! I haven't gone by the 
name Obi-Wan since oh, before you 
were born.

LUKE
Then the droid does belong to you.

BEN
Don't seem to remember ever owning a 
droid. Very interesting...

He suddenly looks up at the overhanging cliffs.

BEN
I think we better get indoors. The 
Sandpeople are easily startled but 
they will soon be back and in greater 
numbers.

Luke sits up and rubs his head. Artoo lets out a pathetic 
beep causing Luke to remember something. He looks around.

LUKE
Threepio!

EXT. TATOOINE - SAND PIT - ROCK MESA - DAY

Little Artoo stands at the edge of a large sand pit and begins 
to chatter away in electronic whistles and beeps. Luke and 
Ben stand over a very dented and tangled Threepio lying half 
buried in the sand. One of his arms has broken off.

Luke tries to revive the inert robot by shaking him and then 
flips a hidden switch on his back several times until finally 
the mechanical man's systems turn on.

THREEPIO
Where am I? I must have taken a bad 
step...

LUKE
Can you stand? We've got to get out 
of here before the Sandpeople return.

THREEPIO
I don't think I can make it. You go 
on, Master Luke. There's no sense in 
you risking yourself on my account. 
I'm done for.

Artoo makes a beeping sound.

LUKE
No, you're not. What kind of talk is 
that?

Luke and Ben help the battered robot to his feet. Little 
Artoo watches from the top of the pit. Ben glances around 
suspiciously. Sensing something, he stands up and sniffs the 
air.

BEN
Quickly, son... they're on the move.

INT. KENOBI'S DWELLING

The small, spartan hovel is cluttered with desert junk but 
still manages to radiate an air of time-worn comfort and 
security. Luke is in one corner repairing Threepio's arm, as 
old Ben sits thinking.

LUKE
No, my father didn't fight in the 
wars. He was a navigator on a spice 
freighter.

BEN
That's what your uncle told you. He 
didn't hold with your father's ideals. 
Thought he should have stayed here 
and not gotten involved.

LUKE
You fought in the Clone Wars?

BEN
Yes, I was once a Jedi Knight the 
same as your father.

LUKE
I wish I'd known him.

BEN
He was the best star-pilot in the 
galaxy, and a cunning warrior. I 
understand you've become quite a 
good pilot yourself. And he was a 
good friend. Which reminds me...

Ben gets up and goes to a chest where he rummages around.  
As Luke finishes repairing Threepio and starts to fit the 
restraining bolt back on, Threepio looks at him nervously.  
Luke thinks about the bolt for a moment then puts it on the 
table. Ben shuffles up and presents Luke with a short handle 
with several electronic gadgets attached to it.

BEN
I have something here for you. Your 
father wanted you to have this when 
you were old enough, but your uncle 
wouldn't allow it. He feared you 
might follow old Obi-Wan on some 
damned-fool idealistic crusade like 
your father did.

THREEPIO
Sir, if you'll not be needing me, 
I'll close down for awhile.

LUKE
Sure, go ahead.

Ben hands Luke the saber.

LUKE
What is it?

BEN
Your fathers lightsaber. This is the 
weapon of a Jedi Knight. Not as clumsy 
or as random as a blaster.

Luke pushes a button on the handle. A long beam shoots out 
about four feet and flickers there. The light plays across 
the ceiling.

BEN
An elegant weapon for a more civilized 
time. For over a thousand generations 
the Jedi Knights were the guardians 
of peace and justice in the Old 
Republic. Before the dark times, 
before the Empire.

Luke hasn't really been listening.

LUKE
How did my father die?

BEN
A young Jedi named Darth Vader, who 
was a pupil of mine until he turned 
to evil, helped the Empire hunt down 
and destroy the Jedi Knights. He 
betrayed and murdered your father. 
Now the Jedi are all but extinct. 
Vader was seduced by the dark side 
of the Force.

LUKE
The Force?

BEN
Well, the Force is what gives a Jedi 
his power. It's an energy field 
created by all living things. It 
surrounds us and penetrates us. It 
binds the galaxy together.

Artoo makes beeping sounds.

BEN
Now, let's see if we can't figure 
out what you are, my little friend. 
And where you come from.

LUKE
I saw part of the message he was...

Luke is cut short as the recorded image of the beautiful 
young Rebel princess is projected from Artoo's face.

BEN
I seem to have found it.

Luke stops his work as the lovely girl's image flickers before 
his eyes.

LEIA
General Kenobi, years ago you served 
my father in the Clone Wars. Now he 
begs you to help him in his struggle 
against the Empire. I regret that I 
am unable to present my father's 
request to you in person, but my 
ship has fallen under attack and I'm 
afraid my mission to bring you to 
Alderaan has failed. I have placed 
information vital to the survival of 
the Rebellion into the memory systems 
of this R2 unit. My father will know 
how to retrieve it. You must see 
this droid safely delivered to him 
on Alderaan. This is our most 
desperate hour. Help me, Obi-Wan 
Kenobi, you're my only hope.

There is a little static and the transmission is cut short.  
Old Ben leans back and scratches his head. He silently puffs 
on a tarnished chrome water pipe. Luke has stars in his eyes.

BEN
You must learn the ways of the Force 
if you're to come with me to Alderaan.

LUKE
(laughing)
Alderaan? I'm not going to Alderaan. 
I've got to go home. It's late, I'm 
in for it as it is.

BEN
I need your help, Luke. She needs 
your help. I'm getting too old for 
this sort of thing.

LUKE
I can't get involved! I've got work 
to do! It's not that I like the 
Empire. I hate it! But there's nothing 
I can do about it right now. It's 
such a long way from here.

BEN
That's your uncle talking.

LUKE
(sighing)
Oh, God, my uncle. How am I ever 
going to explain this?

BEN
Learn about the Force, Luke.

LUKE
Look, I can take you as far as 
Anchorhead. You can get a transport 
there to Mos Eisley or wherever you're 
going.

BEN
You must do what you feel is right, 
of course.

EXT. SPACE.

An Imperial Stardestroyer heads toward the evil planet-like 
battle station: the Death Star!

INT. DEATH STAR - CONFERENCE ROOM

Eight Imperial senators and generals sit around a black 
conference table. Imperial stormtroopers stand guard around 
the room. Commander Tagge, a young, slimy-looking general, 
is speaking.

TAGGE
Until this battle station is fully 
operational we are vulnerable. The 
Rebel Alliance is too well equipped. 
They're more dangerous than you 
realize.

The bitter Admiral Motti twists nervously in his chair.

MOTTI
Dangerous to your starfleet, 
Commander, not to this battle station!

TAGGE
The Rebellion will continue to gain 
a support in the Imperial Senate as 
long as....

Suddenly all heads turn as Commander Tagge's speech is cut 
short and the Grand Moff Tarkin, governor of the Imperial 
outland regions, enters. He is followed by his powerful ally, 
The Sith Lord, Darth Vader. All of the generals stand and 
bow before the thin, evil-looking governor as he takes his 
place at the head of the table. The Dark Lord stands behind 
him.

TARKIN
The Imperial Senate will no longer 
be of any concern to us. I've just 
received word that the Emperor has 
dissolved the council permanently. 
The last remnants of the Old Republic 
have been swept away.

TAGGE
That's impossible! How will the 
Emperor maintain control without the 
bureaucracy?

TARKIN
The regional governors now have direct 
control over territories. Fear will 
keep the local systems in line. Fear 
of this battle station.

TAGGE
And what of the Rebellion? If the 
Rebels have obtained a complete 
technical readout of this station, 
it is possible, however unlikely, 
that they might find a weakness and 
exploit it.

VADER
The plans you refer to will soon be 
back in our hands.

MOTTI
Any attack made by the Rebels against 
this station would be a useless 
gesture, no matter what technical 
data they've obtained. This station 
is now the ultimate power in the 
universe. I suggest we use it!

VADER
Don't be too proud of this 
technological terror you've 
constructed. The ability to destroy 
a planet is insignificant next to 
the power of the Force.

MOTTI
Don't try to frighten us with your 
sorcerer's ways, Lord Vader. Your 
sad devotion to that ancient religion 
has not helped you conjure up the 
stolen data tapes, or given you 
clairvoyance enough to find the 
Rebel's hidden fort...

Suddenly Motti chokes and starts to turn blue under Vader's 
spell.

VADER
I find your lack of faith disturbing.

TARKIN
Enough of this! Vader, release him!

VADER
As you wish.

TARKIN
This bickering is pointless. Lord 
Vader will provide us with the 
location of the Rebel fortress by 
the time this station is operational. 
We will then crush the Rebellion 
with one swift stroke.

EXT. TATOOINE - WASTELAND

The speeder stops before what remains of the huge Jawas 
Sandcrawler. Luke and Ben walk among the smoldering rubble 
and scattered bodies.

LUKE
It looks like Sandpeople did this, 
all right. Look, here are Gaffi 
sticks, Bantha tracks. It's just... 
I never heard of them hitting anything 
this big before.

Ben is crouching in the sand studying the tracks.

BEN
They didn't. But we are meant to 
think they did. These tracks are 
side by side. Sandpeople always ride 
single file to hide there numbers.

LUKE
These are the same Jawas that sold 
us Artoo and Threepio.

BEN
And these blast points, too accurate 
for Sandpeople. Only Imperial 
stormtroopers are so precise.

LUKE
Why would Imperial troops want to 
slaughter Jawas?

Luke looks back at the speeder where Artoo and Threepio are 
inspecting the dead Jawas, and put two and two together.

LUKE
If they traced the robots here, they 
may have learned who they sold them 
to. And that would lead them home!

Luke reaches a sudden horrible realization, then races for 
the speeder and jumps it.

BEN
Wait, Luke! It's too dangerous.

Luke races off leaving Ben and the two robots alone with the 
burning Sandcrawler.

EXT. TATOOINE - WASTELAND

Luke races across the wasteland in his battered Landspeeder.

EXT. TATOOINE - LARS HOMESTEAD

The speeder roars up to the burning homestead. Luke jumps 
out and runs to the smoking holes that were once his home. 
Debris is scattered everywhere and it looks as if a great 
battle has taken place.

LUKE
Uncle Owen! Aunt Beru! Uncle Owen!

Luke stumbles around in a daze looking for his aunt and uncle. 
Suddenly he comes upon their smoldering remains. He is 
stunned, and cannot speak. Hate replaces fear and a new 
resolve comes over him.

EXT. SPACE

Imperial TIE fighter races toward the Death Star.

INT. DEATH STAR - DETENTION CORRIDOR

Two stormtroopers open an electronic cell door and allow 
several Imperial guards to enter. Princess Leia's face is 
filled with defiance, which slowly gives way to fear as a 
giant black torture robot enters, followed by Darth Vader.

VADER
And, now Your Highness, we will 
discuss the location of your hidden 
Rebel base.

The torture robot gives off a steady beeping sound as it 
approaches Princess Leia and extends one of its mechanical 
arms bearing a large hypodermic needle. The door slides shut 
and the long cell block hallway appears peaceful. The muffled 
screams of the Rebel princess are barely heard.

EXT. TATOOINE - WASTELAND

There is a large bonfire of Jawa bodies blazing in front of 
the Sandcrawler as Ben and the robots finish burning the 
dead.  Luke drives up in the speeder and Ben walks over to 
him.

BEN
There's nothing you could have done, 
Luke, had you been there. You'd have 
been killed, too, and the droids 
would be in the hands of the Empire.

LUKE
I want to come with you to Alderaan. 
There's nothing here for me now. I 
want to learn the ways of the Force 
and become a Jedi like my father.

EXT. TATOOINE - WASTELAND

The Landspeeder with Luke, Artoo, Threepio, and Ben in it 
zooms across the desert. The speeder stops on a bluff 
overlooking the spaceport at Mos Eisley. It is a haphazard 
array of low, grey, concrete structures and semi-domes. A 
harsh gale blows across the stark canyon floor. Luke adjusts 
his goggles and walks to the edge of the craggy bluff where 
Ben is standing.

BEN
Mos Eisley Spaceport. You will never 
find a more wretched hive of scum 
and villainy. We must be cautious.

Ben looks over at Luke, who gives the old Jedi a determined 
smile.

EXT. TATOOINE - MOS EISLEY - STREET

The speeder is stopped on a crowded street by several combat-
hardend stormtroopers who look over the two robots. A Trooper 
questions Luke.

TROOPER
How long have you had these droids?

LUKE
About three or four seasons.

BEN
They're for sale if you want them.

TROOPER
Let me see your identification.

Luke becomes very nervous as he fumbles to find his ID while 
Ben speaks to the Trooper in a very controlled voice.

BEN
You don't need to see his 
identification.

TROOPER
We don't need to see his 
identification.

BEN
These are not the droids your looking 
for.

TROOPER
These are not the droids we're looking 
for.

BEN
He can go about his business.

TROOPER
You can go about your business.

BEN
(to Luke)
Move along.

TROOPER
Move along. Move along.

EXT. TATOOINE - MOS EISLEY - STREET

The speeder pulls up in front of a rundown blockhouse cantina 
on the outskirts of the spaceport. Various strange forms of 
transport, including several unusual beasts of burden, are 
parked outside the bar. A Jawa runs up and begins to fondle 
the speeder.

THREEPIO
I can't abide these Jawas. Disgusting 
creatures.

As Luke gets out of the speeder he tries to shoo the Jawa 
away.

LUKE
Go on, go on. I can't understand how 
we got by those troopers. I thought 
we were dead.

BEN
The Force can have a strong influence 
on the weak-minded. You will find it 
a powerful ally.

LUKE
Do you really think we're going to 
find a pilot here that'll take us to 
Alderaan?

BEN
Well, most of the best freighter 
pilots can be found here. Only watch 
your step. This place can be a little 
rough.

LUKE
I'm ready for anything.

THREEPIO
Come along, Artoo.

INT. TATOOINE - MOS EISLEY - CANTINA

The young adventurer and his two mechanical servants follow 
Ben Kenobi into the smoke-filled cantina. The murky, moldy 
den is filled with a startling array of weird and exotic 
alien creatures and monsters at the long metallic bar. At 
first the sight is horrifying. One-eyed, thousand-eyed, slimy, 
furry, scaly, tentacled, and clawed creatures huddle over 
drinks. Ben moves to an empty spot at the bar near a group 
of repulsive but human scum. A huge, rough-looking Bartender 
stops Luke and the robots.

BARTENDER
We don't serve their kind here!

Luke still recovering from the shock of seeing so many 
outlandish creatures, doesn't quite catch the bartender's 
drift.

LUKE
What?

BARTENDER
Your droids. They'll have to wait 
outside. We don't want them here.

Luke looks at old Ben, who is busy talking to one of the 
Galactic pirates. He notices several of the gruesome creatures 
along the bar are giving him a very unfriendly glare.

Luke pats Threepio on the shoulder.

LUKE
Listen, why don't you wait out by 
the speeder. We don't want any 
trouble.

THREEPIO
I heartily agree with you sir.

Threepio and his stubby partner go outside and most of the 
creatures at the bar go back to their drinks.

Ben is standing next to Chewbacca, an eight-foot-tall savage-
looking creature resembling a huge grey bushbaby monkey with 
fierce baboon-like fangs. His large blue eyes dominate a fur-
covered face and soften his otherwise awesome appearance.  
Over his matted, furry body he wears two chrome bandoliers, 
and little else. He is a two-hundred-year-old Wookiee and a 
sight to behold.

Ben speaks to the Wookiee, pointing to Luke several times 
during his conversation and the huge creature suddenly lets 
out a horrifying laugh. Luke is more than a little bit 
disconcerted and pretends not to hear the conversation between 
Ben and the giant Wookiee.

Luke is terrified but tries not to show it. He quietly sips 
his drink, looking over the crowd for a more sympathetic ear 
or whatever.

A large, multiple-eyed Creature gives Luke a rough shove.

CREATURE
Negola dewaghi wooldugger?!?

The hideous freak is obviously drunk. Luke tries to ignore 
the creature and turns back on his drink. A short, grubby 
Human and an even smaller rodent-like beast join the 
belligerent monstrosity.

HUMAN
He doesn't like you.

LUKE
I'm sorry.

HUMAN
I don't like you either.

The big creature is getting agitated and yells out some 
unintelligible gibberish at the now rather nervous, young 
adventurer.

HUMAN
Don't insult us. You just watch 
yourself. We're wanted men. I have 
the death sentence in twelve systems.

LUKE
I'll be careful than.

HUMAN
You'll be dead.

The rodent lets out a loud grunt and everything at the bar 
moves away. Luke tries to remain cool but it isn't easy. His 
three adversaries ready their weapons. Old Ben moves in behind 
Luke.

BEN
This little one isn't worth the 
effort. Come let me buy you 
something...

A powerful blow from the unpleasant creature sends the young 
would-be Jedi sailing across the room, crashing through tables 
and breaking a large jug filled with a foul-looking liquid. 
With a blood curdling shriek, the monster draws a wicked 
chrome laser pistol from his belt and levels it at old Ben. 
The bartender panics.

BARTENDER
No blasters! No blaster!

With astounding agility old Ben's laser sword sparks to life 
and in a flash an arm lies on the floor. The rodent is cut 
in two and the giant multiple-eyed creature lies doubled, 
cut from chin to groin. Ben carefully and precisely turns 
off his laser sword and replaces it on his utility belt. 
Luke, shaking and totally amazed at the old man's abilities, 
attempts to stand. The entire fight has lasted only a matter 
of seconds. The cantina goes back to normal, although Ben is 
given a respectable amount of room at the bar. Luke, rubbing 
his bruised head, approaches the old man with new awe. Ben 
points the the Wookiee.

BEN
This is Chewbacca. He's first-mate 
on a ship that might suit our needs.

EXT. TATOOINE - MOS EISLEY - STREET

Threepio paces in front of the cantina as Artoo carries on 
an electronic conversation with another little red astro-
droid. A creature comes out of the cantina and approaches 
two stormtroopers in the street.

THREEPIO
I don't like the look of this.

INT. TATOOINE - MOS EISLEY - CANTINA

Strange creatures play exotic big band music on odd-looking 
instruments as Luke, still giddy, downs a fresh drink and 
follows Ben and Chewbacca to a booth where Han Solo is 
sitting. Han is a tough, roguish starpilot about thirty years 
old. A mercenary on a starship, he is simple, sentimental, 
and cocksure.

HAN
Han Solo. I'm captain of the 
Millennium Falcon. Chewie here tells 
me you're looking for passage to the 
Alderaan system.

BEN
Yes, indeed. If it's a fast ship.

HAN
Fast ship? You've never heard of the 
Millennium Falcon?

BEN
Should I have?

HAN
It's the ship that made the Kessel 
run in less than twelve parsecs!

Ben reacts to Solo's stupid attempt to impress them with 
obvious misinformation.

HAN
I've outrun Imperial starships, not 
the local bulk-cruisers, mind you. 
I'm talking about the big Corellian 
ships now. She's fast enough for 
you, old man. What's the cargo?

BEN
Only passengers. Myself, the boy, 
two droids, and no questions asked.

HAN
What is it? Some kind of local 
trouble?

BEN
Let's just say we'd like to avoid 
any Imperial entanglements.

HAN
Well, that's the trick, isn't it? 
And it's going to cost you something 
extra. Ten thousand in advance.

LUKE
Ten thousand? We could almost buy 
our own ship for that!

HAN
But who's going to fly it, kid! You?

LUKE
You bet I could. I'm not such a bad 
pilot myself! We don't have to sit 
here and listen...

BEN
We haven't that much with us. But we 
could pay you two thousand now, plus 
fifteen when we reach Alderaan.

HAN
Seventeen, huh!

Han ponders this for a few moments.

HAN
Okay. You guys got yourself a ship. 
We'll leave as soon as you're ready. 
Docking bay Ninety-four.

BEN
Ninety-four.

HAN
Looks like somebody's beginning to 
take an interest in your handiwork.

Ben and Luke turn around to see four Imperial stormtroopers 
looking at the dead bodies and asking the bartenders some 
questions. The bartender points to the booth.

TROOPER
All right, we'll check it out.

The stormtroopers look over at the booth but Luke and Ben 
are gone. The bartender shrugs his shoulders in puzzlement.

HAN
Seventeen thousand! Those guys must 
really be desperate. This could really 
save my neck. Get back to the ship 
and get her ready.

EXT. TATOOINE - MOS EISLEY - STREET

BEN
You'll have to sell your speeder.

LUKE
That's okay. I'm never coming back 
to this planet again.

INT. MOS EISLEY - CANTINA

As Han is about to leave, Greedo, a slimy green-faced alien 
with a short trunk-nose, pokes a gun in his side. The creature 
speaks in a foreign tongue translated into English subtitles.

GREEDO
Going somewhere, Solo?

HAN
Yes, Greedo. As a matter of fact, I 
was just going to see your boss. 
Tell Jabba that I've got his money.

Han sits down and the alien sits across from him holding the 
gun on him.

GREEDO
It's too late. You should have paid 
him when you had the chance. Jabba's 
put a price on your head, so large 
that every bounty hunter in the galaxy 
will be looking for you. I'm lucky I 
found you first.

HAN
Yeah, but this time I got the money.

GREEDO
If you give it to me, I might forget 
I found you.

HAN
I don't have it with me. Tell Jabba...

GREEDO
Jabba's through with you. He has no 
time for smugglers who drop their 
shipments at the first sign of an 
Imperial cruiser.

HAN
Even I get boarded sometimes. Do you 
think I had a choice?

Han Solo slowly reaches for his gun under the table.

GREEDO
You can tell that to Jabba. He may 
only take your ship.

HAN
Over my dead body.

GREEDO
That's the idea. I've been looking 
forward to killing you for a long 
time.

HAN
Yes, I'll bet you have.

Suddenly the slimy alien disappears in a blinding flash of 
light. Han pulls his smoking gun from beneath the table as 
the other patron look on in bemused amazement. Han gets up 
and starts out of the cantina, flipping the bartender some 
coins as he leaves.

HAN
Sorry about the mess.

EXT. SPACE

Several TIE fighters approach the Death Star.

INT. DEATH STAR - CONTROL ROOM

VADER
Her resistance to the mind probe is 
considerable. It will be some time 
before we can extract any information 
from her.

An Imperial Officer interrupts the meeting.

IMPERIAL OFFICER
The final check-out is complete. All 
systems are operational. What course 
shall we set?

TARKIN
Perhaps she would respond to an 
alternative form of persuasion.

VADER
What do you mean?

TARKIN
I think it is time we demonstrate 
the full power of this station.
(to soldier)
Set your course for Princess Leia's 
home planet of Alderaan.

TROOPER
With pleasure.

EXT. TATOOINE - MOS EISLEY - STREET

Four heavily-armed stormtroopers move menacingly along a 
narrow slum alleyway crowed with darkly clad creatures hawking 
exotic goods in the dingy little stalls. Men, monsters, and 
robots crouch in the waste-filled doorways, whispering and 
hiding from the hot winds.

THREEPIO
Lock the door, Artoo.

One of the troopers checks a tightly locked door and moves 
on down the alleyway. The door slides open a crack and 
Threepio peeks out. Artoo is barely visible in the background.

TROOPER
All right, check that side of the 
street. It's secure. Move on to the 
next door.

The door opens, Threepio moves into the doorway.

THREEPIO
I would much rather have gone with 
Master Luke than stay here with you. 
I don't know what all the trouble is 
about, but I'm sure it must be your 
fault.

Artoo makes beeping sounds.

THREEPIO
You watch your language!

EXT. TATOOINE - MOS EISLEY - STREET - ALLEYWAY - USED 
SPEEDER LOT

Ben and Luke are standing in a sleazy used speeder lot, 
talking with a tall, grotesque, insect-like used speeder 
dealer. Strange exotic bodies and spindly-legged beasts pass 
by as the insect concludes the sale by giving Luke some coins.

LUKE
He says it's the best he can do. 
Since the XP-38 came out, they're 
just not in demand.

BEN
It will be enough.

Ben and Luke leave the speeder lot and walk down the dusty 
alleyway past a small robot herding a bunch of anteater-like 
creatures. Luke turns and gives one last forlorn look at his 
faithful speeder as he rounds a corner. A darkly clad creature 
moves out of the shadows as they pass and watches them as 
they disappear down another alley.

BEN
If the ship's as fast as he's 
boasting, we ought to do well.

INT. DOCKING BAY 94 - DAY

Jabba the Hut and a half-dozen grisly alien pirates and purple 
creatures stand in the middle of the docking bay. Jabba is 
the grossest of the slavering hulks and his scarred face is 
a grim testimonial to his prowess as a vicious killer. He is 
a fat, slug-like creature with eyes on extended feelers and 
a huge ugly mouth.

JABBA
Come on out, Solo!

A voice from directly behind the pirates startles them and 
they turn around to see Han Solo and the giant Wookiee, 
Chewbacca, standing behind them with no weapons in sight.

HAN
I've been waiting for you, Jabba.

JABBA
I expected you would be.

HAN
I'm not the type to run.

JABBA
(fatherly-smooth)
Han, my boy, there are times when 
you disappoint me... why haven't you 
paid me? And why did you have to fry 
poor Greedo like that... after all 
we've been through together.

HAN
You sent Greedo to blast me.

JABBA
(mock surprise)
Han, why you're the best smuggler in 
the business. You're too valuable to 
fry. He was only relaying my concern 
at your delays. He wasn't going to 
blast you.

HAN
I think he thought he was. Next time 
don't send one of those twerps. If 
you've got something to say to me, 
come see me yourself.

JABBA
Han, Han! If only you hadn't had to 
dump that shipment of spice... you 
understand I just can't make an 
exception. Where would I be if every 
pilot who smuggled for me dumped 
their shipment at the first sign of 
an Imperial starship? It's not good 
business.

HAN
You know, even I get boarded 
sometimes, Jabba. I had no choice, 
but I've got a charter now and I can 
pay you back, plus a little extra. I 
just need some more time.

JABBA
(to his men)
Put your blasters away. Han, my boy, 
I'm only doing this because you're 
the best and I need you. So, for an 
extra, say twenty percent I'll give 
you a little more time... but this 
is it. If you disappoint me again, 
I'll put a price on your head so 
large you won't be able to go near a 
civilized system for the rest of 
your short life.

HAN
Jabba, I'll pay you because it's my 
pleasure.

EXT. DOCKING PORT ENTRY - ALLEYWAY

Chewbacca waits restlessly at the entrance to Docking Bay 
94.  Ben, Luke, and the robots make their way up the street.  
Chewbacca jabbers excitedly and signals for them to hurry. 
The darkly clad creature has followed them from the speeder 
lot.  He stops in a nearby doorway and speaks into a small 
transmitter.

INT. MOS EISLEY SPACEPORT - DOCKING BAY 94

Chewbacca leads the group into a giant dirt pit that is 
Docking Bay 94. Resting in the middle of the huge hole is a 
large, round, beat-up, pieced-together hunk of junk that 
could only loosely be called a starship.

LUKE
What a piece of junk.

The tall figure of Han Solo comes down the boarding ramp.

HAN
She'll make point five beyond the 
speed of light. She may not look 
like much, but she's got it where it 
counts, kid. I've added some special 
modifications myself.

Luke scratches his head. It's obvious he isn't sure about 
all this. Chewbacca rushes up the ramp and urges the others 
to follow.

HAN
We're a little rushed, so if you'll 
hurry aboard we'll get out of here.

The group rushes up the gang plank, passing a grinning Han 
Solo.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON

Chewbacca settles into the pilot's chair and starts the mighty 
engines of the starship.

INT. MOS EISLEY SPACEPORT - DOCKING BAY 94

Luke, Ben, Threepio, and Artoo move toward the Millennium 
Falcon passing Solo.

THREEPIO
Hello, sir.

EXT. TATOOINE - MOS EISLEY - STREET

Eight Imperial stormtroopers rush up to the darkly clad 
creature.

TROOPER
Which way?

The darkly clad creature points to the door of the docking 
bay.

TROOPER
All right, men. Load your weapons!

INT. MOS EISLEY SPACEPORT - DOCKING BAY 94]

The troops hold their guns at the ready and charge down the 
docking bay entrance.

TROOPER
Stop that ship!

Han Solo looks up and sees the Imperial stormtroopers rushing 
into the docking bay. Several of the troopers fire at Han as 
he ducks into the spaceship.

TROOPER
Blast 'em!

Han draws his laser pistol and pops off a couple of shots 
which force the stormtroopers to dive for safety. The 
pirateship engines whine as Han hits the release button that 
slams the overhead entry shut.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON

HAN
Chewie, get us out of here!

The group straps in for take off.

THREEPIO
Oh, my. I'd forgotten how much I 
hate space travel.

EXT. TATOOINE - MOS EISLEY - STREETS

The half-dozen stormtroopers at a check point hear the general 
alarm and look to the sky as the huge starship rises above 
the dingy slum dwellings and quickly disappears into the 
morning sky.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Han climbs into the pilot's chair next to Chewbacca, who 
chatters away as he points to something on the radar scope.

EXT. SPACE - PLANET TATOOINE

The Corellian pirateship zooms from Tatooine into space.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Han frantically types information into the ship's computer.  
Little Artoo appears momentarily at the cockpit doorway, 
makes a few beeping remarks, then scurries away.

HAN
It looks like an Imperial cruiser. 
Our passengers must be hotter than I 
thought. Try and hold them off. Angle 
the deflector shield while I make 
the calculations for the jump to 
light speed.

EXT. SPACE - PLANET TATOOINE

The Millennium Falcon pirateship races away from the yellow 
planet, Tatooine. It is followed by two huge Imperial 
stardestroyers.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Over the shoulders of Chewbacca and Han, we can see the galaxy 
spread before them. Luke and Ben make their way into the 
cramped cockpit where Han continues his calculation.

HAN
Stay sharp! There are two more coming 
in; they're going to try to cut us 
off.

LUKE
Why don't you outrun them? I thought 
you said this thing was fast.

HAN
Watch your mouth, kid, or you're 
going to find yourself floating home. 
We'll be safe enough once we make 
the jump to hyperspace. Besides, I 
know a few maneuvers. We'll lose 
them!

EXT. SPACE - PLANET TATOOINE

Imperial cruisers fire at the pirateship.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

The ship shudders as an explosion flashes outside the window.

HAN
Here's where the fun begins!

BEN
How long before you can make the 
jump to light speed?

HAN
It'll take a few moments to get the 
coordinates from the navi-computer.

The ship begins to rock violently as lasers hit it.

LUKE
Are you kidding? At the rate they're 
gaining...

HAN
Traveling through hyperspace isn't 
like dusting crops, boy! Without 
precise calculations we could fly 
right through a star or bounce too 
close to a supernova and that'd end 
your trip real quick, wouldn't it?

The ship is now constantly battered with laserfire as a red 
warning light begins to flash.

LUKE
What's that flashing?

HAN
We're losing our deflector shield. 
Go strap yourself in, I'm going to 
make the jump to light speed.

The galaxy brightens and they move faster, almost as if 
crashing a barrier. Stars become streaks as the pirateship 
makes the jump to hyperspace.

EXT. SPACE

The Millennium Falcon zooms into infinity in less than a 
second.

EXT. DEATH STAR

Alderaan looms behind the Death Star battlestation.

INT. DEATH STAR - CONTROL ROOM

Admiral Motti enters the quiet control room and bows before 
Governor Tarkin, who stands before the huge wall screen 
displaying a small green planet.

MOTTI
We've entered the Alderaan system.

Vader and two stormtroopers enter with Princess Leia. Her 
hands are bound.

LEIA
Governor Tarkin, I should have 
expected to find you holding Vader's 
leash. I recognized your foul stench 
when I was brought on board.

TARKIN
Charming to the last. You don't know 
how hard I found it signing the order 
to terminate your life!

LEIA
I surprised you had the courage to 
take the responsibility yourself!

TARKIN
Princess Leia, before your execution 
I would like you to be my guest at a 
ceremony that will make this battle 
station operational. No star system 
will dare oppose the Emperor now.

LEIA
The more you tighten your grip, 
Tarkin, the more star systems will 
slip through your fingers.

TARKIN
Not after we demonstrate the power 
of this station. In a way, you have 
determined the choice of the planet 
that'll be destroyed first. Since 
you are reluctant to provide us with 
the location of the Rebel base, I 
have chosen to test this station's 
destructive power... on your home 
planet of Alderaan.

LEIA
No! Alderaan is peaceful. We have no 
weapons. You can't possibly...

TARKIN
You would prefer another target? A 
military target? Then name the system!

Tarkin waves menacingly toward Leia.

TARKIN
I grow tired of asking this. So it'll 
be the last time. Where is the Rebel 
base?

Leia overhears an intercom voice announcing the approach to 
Alderaan.

LEIA
(softly)
Dantooine.

Leia lowers her head.

LEIA
They're on Dantooine.

TARKIN
There. You see Lord Vader, she can 
be reasonable.
(addressing Motti)
Continue with the operation. You may 
fire when ready.

LEIA
What?

TARKIN
You're far too trusting. Dantooine 
is too remote to make an effective 
demonstration. But don't worry. We 
will deal with your Rebel friends 
soon enough.

LEIA
No!

INT. DEATH STAR - BLAST CHAMBER

VADER
Commence primary ignition.

A button is pressed which switches on a panel of lights. A 
hooded Imperial soldier reaches overhead and pulls a lever.  
Another lever is pulled. Vader reaches for still another 
lever and a bank of lights on a panel and wall light up. A 
huge beam of light emanates from within a cone-shaped area 
and converges into a single laser beam out toward Alderaan. 
The small green planet of Alderaan is blown into space dust.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - CENTRAL HOLD AREA

Ben watches Luke practice the lightsaber with a small "seeker" 
robot. Ben suddenly turns away and sits down. He falters, 
seems almost faint.

LUKE
Are you all right? What's wrong?

BEN
I felt a great disturbance in the 
Force... as if millions of voices 
suddenly cried out in terror and 
were suddenly silenced. I fear 
something terrible has happened.

Ben rubs his forehead. He seems to drift into a trance. Then 
he fixes his gaze on Luke.

BEN
You'd better get on with your 
exercises.

Han Solo enters the room.

HAN
Well, you can forget your troubles 
with those Imperial slugs. I told 
you I'd outrun 'em.

Luke is once again practicing with the lightsaber.

HAN
Don't everyone thank me at once.

Threepio watches Chewbacca and Artoo who are engrossed in a 
game in which three-dimensional holographic figures move 
along a chess-type board.

HAN
Anyway, we should be at Alderaan 
about oh-two-hundred hours.

Chewbacca and the two robots sit around the lighted table 
covered with small holographic monsters. Each side of the 
table has a small computer monitor embedded in it. Chewbacca 
seems very pleased with himself as he rests his lanky fur- 
covered arms over his head.

THREEPIO
Now be careful, Artoo.

Artoo immediately reaches up and taps the computer with his 
stubby claw hand, causing one of the holographic creatures 
to walk to the new square. A sudden frown crosses Chewbacca's 
face and he begins yelling gibberish at the tiny robot. 
Threepio intercedes on behalf of his small companion and 
begins to argue with the huge Wookiee.

THREEPIO
He made a fair move. Screaming about 
it won't help you.

HAN
(interrupting)
Let him have it. It's not wise to 
upset a Wookiee.

THREEPIO
But sir, nobody worries about 
upsetting a droid.

HAN
That's 'cause droids don't pull 
people's arms out of their socket 
when they lose. Wookiees are known 
to do that.

THREEPIO
I see your point, sir. I suggest a 
new strategy, Artoo. Let the Wookiee 
win.

Luke stands in the middle of the small hold area; he seems 
frozen in place. A humming lightsaber is held high over his 
head. Ben watches him from the corner, studying his movements.  
Han watches with a bit of smugness.

BEN
Remember, a Jedi can feel the Force 
flowing through him.

LUKE
You mean it controls your actions?

BEN
Partially. But it also obeys your 
commands.

Suspended at eye level, about ten feet in front of Luke, a 
"seeker", a chrome baseball-like robot covered with antennae, 
hovers slowly in a wide arc. The ball floats to one side of 
the youth then the other. Suddenly it makes a lightning-swift 
lunge and stops within a few feet of Luke's face. Luke doesn't 
move and the ball backs off. It slowly moves behind the boy, 
then makes another quick lunge, this time emitting a blood 
red laser beam as it attacks. It hits Luke in the leg causing 
him to tumble over. Han lets loose with a burst of laughter.

HAN
Hokey religions and ancient weapons 
are no match for a good blaster at 
your side, kid.

LUKE
You don't believe in the Force, do 
you?

HAN
Kid, I've flown from one side of 
this galaxy to the other. I've seen 
a lot of strange stuff, but I've 
never seen anything to make me believe 
there's one all-powerful force 
controlling everything. There's no 
mystical energy field that controls 
my destiny.

Ben smiles quietly.

HAN
It's all a lot of simple tricks and 
nonsense.

BEN
I suggest you try it again, Luke.

Ben places a large helmet on Luke's head which covers his 
eyes.

BEN
This time, let go your conscious 
self and act on instinct.

LUKE
(laughing)
With the blast shield down, I can't 
even see. How am I supposed to fight?

BEN
Your eyes can deceive you. Don't 
trust them.

Han skeptically shakes his head as Ben throws the seeker 
into the air. The ball shoots straight up in the air, then 
drops like a rock. Luke swings the lightsaber around blindly 
missing the seeker, which fires off a laserbolt which hits 
Luke square on the seat of the pants. He lets out a painful 
yell and attempts to hit the seeker.

BEN
Stretch out with your feelings.

Luke stands in one place, seemingly frozen. The seeker makes 
a dive at Luke and, incredibly, he managed to deflect the 
bolt. The ball ceases fire and moves back to its original 
position.

BEN
You see, you can do it.

HAN
I call it luck.

BEN
In my experience, there's no such 
thing as luck.

HAN
Look, going good against remotes is 
one thing. Going good against the 
living? That's something else.

Solo notices a small light flashing on the far side of the 
control panel.

HAN
Looks like we're coming up on 
Alderaan.

Han and Chewbacca head back to the cockpit.

LUKE
You know, I did feel something. I 
could almost see the remote.

BEN
That's good. You have taken your 
first step into a larger world.

INT. DEATH STAR - CONFERENCE ROOM

Imperial Officer Cass stands before Governor Tarkin and the 
evil Dark Lord Darth Vader.

TARKIN
Yes.

OFFICER CASS
Our scout ships have reached 
Dantooine. They found the remains of 
a Rebel base, but they estimate that 
it has been deserted for some time. 
They are now conducting an extensive 
search of the surrounding systems.

TARKIN
She lied! She lied to us!

VADER
I told you she would never consciously 
betray the Rebellion.

TARKIN
Terminate her... immediately!

EXT. HYPERSPACE

The pirateship is just coming out of hyperspace; a strange 
surreal light show surrounds the ship.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

HAN
Stand by, Chewie, here we go. Cut in 
the sublight engines.

Han pulls back on a control lever. Outside the cockpit window 
stars begin streaking past, seem to decrease in speed, then 
stop. Suddenly the starship begins to shudder and violently 
shake about. Asteroids begin to race toward them, battering 
the sides of the ship.

HAN
What the...? Aw, we've come out of 
hyperspace into a meteor shower. 
Some kind of asteroid collision. 
It's not on any of the charts.

The Wookiee flips off several controls and seems very cool 
in the emergency. Luke makes his way into the bouncing 
cockpit.

LUKE
What's going on?

HAN
Our position is correct, except... 
no, Alderaan!

LUKE
What do you mean? Where is it?

HAN
Thats what I'm trying to tell you, 
kid. It ain't there. It's been totally 
blown away.

LUKE
What? How?

Ben moves into the cockpit behind Luke as the ship begins to 
settle down.

BEN
Destroyed... by the Empire!

HAN
The entire starfleet couldn't destroy 
the whole planet. It'd take a thousand 
ships with more fire power than 
I've...

A signal starts flashing on the control panel and a muffled 
alarm starts humming.

HAN
There's another ship coming in.

LUKE
Maybe they know what happened.

BEN
It's an Imperial fighter.

Chewbacca barks his concern. A huge explosion bursts outside 
the cockpit window, shaking the ship violently. A tiny, finned 
Imperial TIE fighter races past the cockpit window.

LUKE
It followed us!

BEN
No. It's a short range fighter.

HAN
There aren't any bases around here. 
Where did it come from?

EXT. SPACE

The fighter races past the Corellian pirateship.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

LUKE
It sure is leaving in a big hurry. 
If they identify us, we're in big 
trouble.

HAN
Not if I can help it. Chewie...jam 
it's transmissions.

BEN
It'd be as well to let it go. It's 
too far out of range.

HAN
Not for long...

EXT. SPACE

The pirateship zooms over the camera and away into the 
vastness of space after the Imperial TIE fighter.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

The tension mounts as the pirateship gains on the tiny 
fighter. In the distance, one of the stars becomes brighter 
until it is obvious that the TIE ship is heading for it. Ben 
stands behind Chewbacca.

BEN
A fighter that size couldn't get 
this deep into space on its own.

LUKE
It must have gotten lost, been part 
of a convoy or something.

HAN
Well, he ain't going to be around 
long enough to tell anyone about us.

EXT. SPACE

The TIE fighter is losing ground to the larger pirateship as 
they race toward camera and disappear over head.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

The distant star can be distinguished as a small moon or 
planet.

LUKE
Look at him. He's headed for that 
small moon.

HAN
I think I can get him before he gets 
there... he's almost in range.

The small moon begins to take on the appearance of a monstrous 
spherical battle station.

BEN
That's no moon! It's a space station.

HAN
It's too big to be a space station.

LUKE
I have a very bad feeling about this.

HAN
Yeah, I think your right. Full 
reverse! Chewie, lock in the auxiliary 
power.

The pirateship shudders and the TIE fighter accelerates away 
toward the gargantuan battle station.

LUKE
Why are we still moving towards it?

HAN
We're caught in a tractor beam! It's 
pulling us in!

LUKE
But there's gotta be something you 
can do!

HAN
There's nothin' I can do about it, 
kid. I'm in full power. I'm going to 
have to shut down. But they're not 
going to get me without a fight!

Ben Kenobi puts a hand on his shoulder.

BEN
You can't win. But there are 
alternatives to fighting.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - DEATH STAR

As the battered pirate starship is towed closer to the awesome 
metal moon, the immense size of the massive battle station 
becomes staggering. Running along the equator of the gigantic 
sphere is a mile-high band of huge docking ports into which 
the helpless pirateship is dragged.

EXT. DEATH STAR - HUGE PORT DOORS

The helpless Millennium Falcon is pulled past a docking port 
control room and huge laser turret cannons.

VOICE OVER DEATH STAR INTERCOM

Clear Bay twenty-three-seven. We are opening the magnetic 
field.

INT. DEATH STAR - DOCKING BAY 2037

The pirateship is pulled in through port doors of the Death 
Star, coming to rest in a huge hangar. Thirty stormtroopers 
stand at attention in a central assembly area.

OFFICER
To you stations!
(to another officer)
Come with me.

INT. DEATH STAR - HALLWAY

Stormtroopers run to their posts.

INT. DEATH STAR - HANGAR 2037

A line of stormtroopers march toward the pirateship in 
readiness to board it, while other troopers stand with weapons 
ready to fire.

OFFICER
Close all outboard shields! Close 
all outboard shields!

INT. DEATH STAR - CONFERENCE ROOM

Tarkin pushes a button and responds to the intercom buzz.

TARKIN
Yes.

VOICE
(over intercom)
We've captured a freighter entering 
the remains of the Alderaan system. 
It's markings match those of a ship 
that blasted its way out of Mos 
Eisley.

VADER
They must be trying to return the 
stolen plans to the princess. She 
may yet be of some use to us.

INT. DEATH STAR - DOCKING BAY 2037

Vader and a commander approach the troops as an Officer and 
several heavily armed troops exit the spacecraft.

VOICE
(over intercom)
Unlock one-five-seven and nine. 
Release charges.

OFFICER
(to Vader)
There's no one on board, sir. 
According to the log, the crew 
abandoned ship right after takeoff. 
It must be a decoy, sir. Several of 
the escape pods have been jettisoned.

VADER
Did you find any droids?

OFFICER
No, sir. If there were any on board, 
they must also have jettisoned.

VADER
Send a scanning crew on board. I 
want every part of this ship checked.

OFFICER
Yes, sir.

VADER
I sense something... a presence I 
haven't felt since...

Vader turns quickly and exits the hangar.

OFFICER
Get me a scanning crew in here on 
the double. I want every part of 
this ship checked!

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - HALLWAY

A trooper runs through the hallway heading for the exit. In 
a few moments all is quiet. The muffled sounds of a distant 
officer giving orders finally fade. Two floor panels suddenly 
pop up revealing Han Solo and Luke. Ben Kenobi sticks his 
head out of a third locker.

LUKE
Boy, it's lucky you had these 
compartments.

HAN
I use them for smuggling. I never 
thought I'd be smuggling myself in 
them. This is ridiculous. Even if I 
could take off, I'd never get past 
the tractor beam.

BEN
Leave that to me!

HAN
Damn fool. I knew that you were going 
to say that!

BEN
Who's the more foolish... the fool 
or the fool who follows him?

Han shakes his head, muttering to himself. Chewbacca agrees.

INT. DEATH STAR - MAIN FORWARD BAY

The crewmen carry a heavy box on board the ship, past the 
two stormtroopers guarding either side of the ramp.

TROOPER
The ship's all yours. If the scanners 
pick up anything, report it 
immediately. All right, let's go.

The crewmen enter the pirateship and a loud crashing sound 
is followed by a voice calling to the guard below.

HAN'S VOICE
Hey down there, could you give us a 
hand with this?

The stormtroopers enter the ship and a quick round of gunfire 
is heard.

INT. DEATH STAR - FORWARD BAY - COMMAND OFFICE

In a very small command office near the entrance to the 
pirateship, a Gantry Officer looks out his window and notices 
the guards are missing. He speaks into the comlink.

GANTRY OFFICER
TX-four-one-two. Why aren't you at 
your post? TX-four-one-two, do you 
copy?

A stormtrooper comes down the ramp of the pirateship and 
waves to the gantry officer, pointing to his ear indicating 
his comlink is not working. The gantry officer shakes his 
head in disgust and heads for the door, giving his aide an 
annoyed look.

GANTRY OFFICER
Take over. We've got a bad 
transmitter. I'll see what I can do.

As the officer approaches the door, it slides open revealing 
the towering Chewbacca. The gantry officer, in a momentary 
state of shock, stumbles backward. With a bone- chilling 
howl, the giant Wookiee flattens the officer with one blow. 
The aide immediately reaches for his pistol, but is blasted 
by Han, dressed as an Imperial stormtrooper. Ben and the 
robots enter the room quickly followed by Luke, also dressed 
as a stormtrooper. Luke quickly removes his helmet.

LUKE
You know, between his howling and 
your blasting everything in sight, 
it's a wonder the whole station 
doesn't know we're here.

HAN
Bring them on! I prefer a straight 
fight to all this sneaking around.

THREEPIO
We found the computer outlet, sir.

Ben feeds some information into the computer and a map of 
the city appears on the monitor. He begins to inspect it 
carefully. Threepio and Artoo look over the control panel.  
Artoo finds something that makes him whistle wildly.

BEN
Plug in. He should be able to 
interpret the entire Imperial computer 
network.

Artoo punches his claw arm into the computer socket and the 
vast Imperial brain network comes to life, feeding information 
to the little robot. After a few moments, he beeps something.

THREEPIO
He says he's found the main computer 
to power the tractor beam that's 
holding the ship here. He'll try to 
make the precise location appear on 
the monitor.

The computer monitor flashes readouts.

THREEPIO
The tractor beam is coupled to the 
main reactor in seven locations. A 
power loss at one of the terminals 
will allow the ship to leave.

Ben studies the data on the monitor readout.

BEN
I don't think you boys can help. I 
must go alone.

HAN
Whatever you say. I've done more 
that I bargained for on this trip 
already.

LUKE
I want to go with you.

BEN
Be patient, Luke. Stay and watch 
over the droids.

LUKE
But he can...

BEN
They must be delivered safely or 
other star systems will suffer the 
same fate as Alderaan. Your destiny 
lies along a different path than 
mine. The Force will be with you... 
always!

Ben adjusts the lightsaber on his belt and silently steps 
out of the command office, then disappears down a long grey 
hallway. Chewbacca barks a comment and Han shakes his head 
in agreement.

HAN
Boy you said it, Chewie.

Han looks at Luke.

HAN
Where did you dig up that old fossil?

LUKE
Ben is a great man.

HAN
Yeah, great at getting us into 
trouble.

LUKE
I didn't hear you give any ideas...

HAN
Well, anything would be better than 
just hanging around waiting for him 
to pick us up...

LUKE
Who do you think...

Suddenly Artoo begins to whistle and beep a blue streak.  
Luke goes over to him.

LUKE
What is it?

THREEPIO
I'm afraid I'm not quite sure, sir. 
He says "I found her", and keeps 
repeating, "She's here."

LUKE
Well, who... who has he found?

Artoo whistles a frantic reply.

THREEPIO
Princess Leia.

LUKE
The princess? She's here?

HAN
Princess? What's going on?

THREEPIO
Level five. Detention block A A-twenty-
three. I'm afraid she's scheduled to 
be terminated.

LUKE
Oh, no! We've got to do something.

HAN
What are you talking about?

LUKE
The droid belongs to her. She's the 
one in the message... We've got to 
help her.

HAN
Now, look, don't get any funny ideas. 
The old man wants us to wait right 
here.

LUKE
But he didn't know she was here. 
Look, will you just find a way back 
into the detention block?

HAN
I'm not going anywhere.

LUKE
They're going to execute her. Look, 
a few minutes ago you said you didn't 
want to just wait here to be captured. 
Now all you want to do is stay.

HAN
Marching into the detention area is 
not what I had in mind.

LUKE
But they're going to kill her!

HAN
Better her than me...

LUKE
She's rich.

Chewbacca growls.

HAN
Rich?

LUKE
Yes. Rich, powerful! Listen, if you 
were to rescue her, the reward would 
be...

HAN
What?

LUKE
Well more wealth that you can imagine.

HAN
I don't know, I can imagine quite a 
bit!

LUKE
You'll get it!

HAN
I better!

LUKE
You will...

HAN
All right, kid. But you'd better be 
right about this.

Han looks at Chewie, who grunts a short grunt.

LUKE
All right.

HAN
What's your plan?

LUKE
Uh... Threepio, hand me those binders 
there will you?

Luke moves toward Chewbacca with electronic cuffs.

LUKE
Okay. Now, I'm going to put these on 
you.

Chewie lets out a hideous growl.

LUKE
Okay. Han, you put these on.

Luke sheepishly hands the binders to Han.

HAN
Don't worry, Chewie. I think I know 
what he has in mind.

The Wookiee has a worried and frightened look on his face as 
Han binds him with the electronic cuffs.

THREEPIO
Master Luke, sir! Pardon me for 
asking... but, ah... what should 
Artoo and I do if we're discovered 
here?

LUKE
Lock the door!

HAN
And hope they don't have blasters.

THREEPIO
That isn't very reassuring.

Luke and Han put on their armored stormtrooper helmets and 
start off into the giant Imperial Death Star.

INT. DEATH STAR - DETENTION AREA - ELEVATOR TUBE

Han and Luke try to look inconspicuous in their armored suits 
as they wait for a vacuum elevator to arrive. Troops, 
bureaucrats, and robots bustle about, ignoring the trio 
completely. Only a few give the giant Wookiee a curious 
glance.

Finally a small elevator arrives and the trio enters.

LUKE
I can't see a thing in this helmet.

A bureaucrat races to get aboard also, but is signaled away 
by Han. The door to the pod-like vehicle slides closed and 
the elevator car takes off through a vacuum tube.

INT. DEATH STAR - MAIN HALLWAY

Several Imperial officers walk through the wide main 
passageway. They pass several stormtroopers and a robot 
similar to Threepio but with an insect face. At the far end 
of the hallway, a passing flash of Ben Kenobi appears, then 
disappears down a small hallway. His appearance is so fleeting 
that it is hard to tell if he is real or just an illusion. 
No one in the hallway seems to notice him.

INT. DEATH STAR - INTERIOR ELEVATOR - DETENTION SECURITY 
AREA

Luke and Han step forward to exit the elevator, but the door 
slides open behind them. The giant Wookiee and his two guards 
enter the old grey security station. Guards and laser gates 
are everywhere. Han whispers to Luke under his breath.

HAN
This is not going to work.

LUKE
Why didn't you say so before?

HAN
I did say so before!

INT. DETENTION AREA

Elevator doors open. A tall, grim looking Officer approaches 
the trio.

OFFICER
Where are you taking this... thing?

Chewie growls a bit at the remark but Han nudges him to shut 
up.

LUKE
Prisoner transfer from Block one-one-
three-eight.

OFFICER
I wasn't notified. I'll have to clear 
it.

The officer goes back to his console and begins to punch in 
the information. There are only three other troopers in the 
area. Luke and Han survey the situation, checking all of the 
alarms, laser gates, and camera eyes. Han unfastens one of 
Chewbacca's electronic cuffs and shrugs to Luke.

Suddenly Chewbacca throws up his hands and lets out with one 
of his ear-piercing howls. He grabs Han's laser rifle.

HAN
Look out! He's loose!

LUKE
He's going to pull us all apart.

HAN
Go get him!

The startled guards are momentarily dumbfounded. Luke and 
Han have already pulled out their laser pistols and are 
blasting away at the terrifying Wookiee. Their barrage of 
laserfire misses Chewbacca, but hits the camera eyes, laser 
gate controls, and the Imperial guards. The officer is the 
last of the guards to fall under the laserfire just as he is 
about to push the alarm system. Han rushes to the comlink 
system, which is screeching questions about what is going 
on.  He quickly checks the computer readout.

HAN
We've got to find out which cell 
this princess of yours is in. Here 
it is... cell twenty-one-eight-seven. 
You go get her. I'll hold them here.

Luke races down one of the cell corridors. Han speaks into 
the buzzing comlink.

HAN
(sounding official)
Everything is under control. Situation 
normal.

INTERCOM VOICE
What happened?

HAN
(getting nervous)
Uh... had a slight weapons 
malfunction. But, uh, everything's 
perfectly all right now. We're fine. 
We're all fine here, now, thank you. 
How are you?

INTERCOM VOICE
We're sending a squad up.

HAN
Uh, uh, negative. We had a reactor 
leak here now. Give us a few minutes 
to lock it down. Large leak... very 
dangerous.

INTERCOM VOICE
Who is this? What's your operating 
number?

Han blasts the comlink and it explodes.

HAN
Boring conversation anyway.
(yelling down the 
hall)
Luke! We're going to have company!

INT. DEATH STAR - CELL ROW

Luke stops in front of one of the cells and blasts the door 
away with a laser pistol. When the smoke clears, Luke sees 
the dazzling young princess-senator. She had been sleeping 
and is now looking at him with an uncomprehending look on 
her face. Luke is stunned by her incredible beauty and stands 
staring at her with his mouth hanging open.

LEIA
(finally)
Aren't you a little short to be a 
stormtrooper?

Luke takes off his helmet, coming out of it.

LUKE
What? Oh... the uniform. I'm Luke 
Skywalker. I'm here to rescue you.

LEIA
You're who?

LUKE
I'm here to rescue you. I've got 
your R2 unit. I'm here with Ben 
Kenobi.

LEIA
Ben Kenobi is here! Where is he?

LUKE
Come on!

INT. DEATH STAR - CONFERENCE ROOM

Darth Vader paces the room as Governor Tarkin sits at the 
far end of the conference table.

VADER
He is here...

TARKIN
Obi-Wan Kenobi! What makes you think 
so?

VADER
A tremor in the Force. The last time 
I felt it was in the presence of my 
old master.

TARKIN
Surely he must be dead by now.

VADER
Don't underestimate the power of the 
Force.

TARKIN
The Jedi are extinct, their fire has 
gone out of the universe. You, my 
friend, are all that's left of their 
religion.

There is a quiet buzz on the comlink.

TARKIN
Yes.

INTERCOM VOICE
Governor Tarkin, we have an emergency 
alert in detention block A A-twenty-
three.

TARKIN
The princess! Put all sections on 
alert!

VADER
Obi-Wan is here. The Force is with 
him.

TARKIN
If you're right, he must not be 
allowed to escape.

VADER
Escape is not his plan. I must face 
him alone.

INT. DEATH STAR - DETENTION AREA - HALLWAY

An ominous buzzing sound is heard on the other side of the 
elevator door.

HAN
Chewie!

Chewbacca responds with a growling noise.

HAN
Get behind me! Get behind me!

A series of explosions knock a hole in the elevator door 
through which several Imperial troops begin to emerge.

Han and Chewie fire laser pistols at them through the smoke 
and flame. They turn and run down the cell hallway, meeting 
up with Luke and Leia rushing toward them.

HAN
Can't get out that way.

LEIA
Looks like you managed to cut off 
our only escape route.

HAN
(sarcastically)
Maybe you'd like it back in your 
cell, Your Highness.

Luke takes a small comlink transmitter from his belt as they 
continue to exchange fire with stormtroopers making their 
way down the corridor.

LUKE
See-Threepio! See-Threepio!

THREEPIO
(over comlink)
Yes sir?

LUKE
We've been cut off! Are there any 
other ways out of the cell bay?... 
What was that? I didn't copy!

INT. DEATH STAR - MAIN BAY GANTRY - CONTROL TOWER

Threepio paces the control center as little Artoo beeps and 
whistles a blue streak. Threepio yells into the small comlink 
transmitter.

THREEPIO
I said, all systems have been alerted 
to your presence, sir. The main 
entrance seems to be the only way in 
or out; all other information on 
your level is restricted.

Someone begins banging on the door.

TROOPER VOICE
Open up in there!

THREEPIO
Oh, no!

INT. DEATH STAR - DETENTION CORRIDOR

Luke and Leia crouch together in an alcove for protection as 
they continue to exchange fire with troops. Han and Chewbacca 
are barely able to keep the stormtroopers at bay at the far 
and of the hallway. The laserfire is very intense, and smoke 
fills the narrow cell corridor.

LUKE
There isn't any other way out.

HAN
I can't hold them off forever! Now 
what?

LEIA
This is some rescue. When you came 
in here, didn't you have a plan for 
getting out?

HAN
(pointing to Luke)
He's the brains, sweetheart.

Luke manages a sheepish grin and shrugs his shoulders.

LUKE
Well, I didn't...

The princess grabs Luke's gun and fires at a small grate in 
the wall next to Han, almost frying him.

HAN
What the hell are you doing?

LEIA
Somebody has to save our skins. Into 
the garbage chute, wise guy.

She jumps through the narrow opening as Han and Chewbacca 
look on in amazement. Chewbacca sniffs the garbage chute and 
says something.

HAN
Get in there you big furry oaf! I 
don't care what you smell! Get in 
there and don't worry about it.

Han gives him a kick and the Wookiee disappears into the 
tiny opening. Luke and Han continue firing as they work their 
way toward the opening.

HAN
Wonderful girl! Either I'm going to 
kill her or I'm beginning to like 
her. Get in there!

Luke ducks laserfire as he jumps into the darkness. Han fires 
off a couple of quick blasts creating a smokey cover, then 
slides into the chute himself and is gone.

INT. DEATH STAR - GARBAGE ROOM

Han tumbles into the large room filled with garbage and muck.  
Luke is already stumbling around looking for an exit. He 
finds a small hatchway and struggles to get it open. It won't 
budge.

HAN
(sarcastically)
Oh! The garbage chute was a really 
wonderful idea. What an incredible 
smell you've discovered! Let's get 
out of here! Get away from there...

LUKE
No! wait!

Han draws his laser pistol and fires at the hatch. The 
laserbolt ricochets wildly around the small metal room.  
Everyone dives for cover in the garbage as the bolt explodes 
almost on top of them. Leia climbs out of the garbage with a 
rather grim look on her face.

LUKE
Will you forget it? I already tried 
it. It's magnetically sealed!

LEIA
Put that thing away! You're going to 
get us all killed.

HAN
Absolutely, Your Worship. Look, I 
had everything under control until 
you led us down here. You know, it's 
not going to take them long to figure 
out what happened to us.

LEIA
It could be worse...

A loud, horrible, inhuman moan works its way up from the 
murky depths. Chewbacca lets out a terrified howl and begins 
to back away. Han and Luke stand fast with their laser pistols 
drawn. The Wookiee is cowering near one of the walls.

HAN
It's worse.

LUKE
There's something alive in here!

HAN
That's your imagination.

LUKE
Something just moves past my leg! 
Look! Did you see that?

HAN
What?

LUKE
Help!

Suddenly Luke is yanked under the garbage.

HAN
Luke! Luke! Luke!

Solo tries to get to Luke. Luke surfaces with a gasp of air 
and thrashing of limbs. A membrane tentacle is wrapped around 
his throat.

LEIA
Luke!

Leia extends a long pipe toward him.

LEIA
Luke, Luke, grab a hold of this.

LUKE
Blast it, will you! My gun's jammed.

HAN
Where?

LUKE
Anywhere! Oh!!

Solo fires his gun downward. Luke is pulled back into the 
muck by the slimy tentacle.

HAN
Luke! Luke!

Suddenly the walls of the garbage receptacle shudder and 
move in a couple of inches. Then everything is deathly quiet.  
Han and Leia give each other a worried look as Chewbacca 
howls in the corner. With a rush of bubbles and muck Luke 
suddenly bobs to the surface.

LEIA
Grab him!

Luke seems to be released by the thing.

LEIA
What happened?

LUKE
I don't know, it just let go of me 
and disappeared...

HAN
I've got a very bad feeling about 
this.

Before anyone can say anything the walls begin to rumble and 
edge toward the Rebels.

LUKE
The walls are moving!

LEIA
Don't just stand there. Try to brace 
it with something.

They place poles and long metal beams between the closing 
walls, but they are simply snapped and bent as the giant 
trashmasher rumbles on. The situation doesn't look too good.

LUKE
Wait a minute!

Luke pulls out his comlink.

LUKE
Threepio! Come in Threepio! Threepio! 
Where could he be?

INT. DEATH STAR - MAIN GANTRY - COMMAND OFFICE

A soft buzzer and the muted voice of Luke calling out for 
See-Threepio can be heard on Threepio's hand comlink, which 
is sitting on the deserted computer console. Artoo and 
Threepio are nowhere in sight. Suddenly there is a great 
explosion and the door of the control tower flies across the 
floor. Four armed stormtroopers enter the chamber.

FIRST TROOPER
Take over!
(pointing to the dead 
officer)
See to him! Look there!

A trooper pushes a button and the supply cabinet door slides 
open. See-Threepio and Artoo-Detoo are inside. Artoo follows 
his bronze companion out into the office.

THREEPIO
They're madmen! They're heading for 
the prison level. If you hurry, you 
might catch them.

FIRST OFFICER
(to his troops)
Follow me! You stand guard.

The troops hustle off down the hallway, leaving a guard to 
watch over the command office.

THREEPIO
(to Artoo)
Come on!

The guard aims a blaster at them.

THREEPIO
Oh! All this excitement has overrun 
the circuits of my counterpart here. 
If you don't mind, I'd like to take 
him down to maintenance.

TROOPER
All right.

The guard nods and Threepio, with little Artoo in tow, hurries 
out the door.

INT. DEATH STAR - GARBAGE ROOM

As the walls rumble closed, the room gets smaller and smaller.  
Chewie is whining and trying to hold a wall back with his 
giant paws.

Han is leaning back against the other wall. Garbage is 
snapping and popping. Luke is trying to reach Threepio.

LUKE
Threepio! Come in, Threepio! Threepio!

Han and Leia try to brace the contracting walls with a pole. 
Leia begins to sink into the trash.

HAN
Get to the top!

LEIA
I can't

LUKE
Where could he be? Threepio! Threepio, 
will you come in?

INT. DEATH STAR - MAIN FORWARD BAY - SERVICE PANEL

THREEPIO
They aren't here! Something must 
have happened to them. See if they've 
been captured.

Little Artoo carefully plugs his claw arm into a new wall 
socket and a complex array of electronic sounds spew from 
the tiny robot.

THREEPIO
Hurry!

INT. DEATH STAR - GARBAGE ROOM

The walls are only feet apart. Leia and Han are braced against 
the walls. The princess is frightened. They look at each 
other. Leia reaches out and takes Han's hand and she holds 
it tightly. She's terrified and suddenly groans as she feels 
the first crushing pressure against her body.

HAN
One thing's for sure. We're all going 
to be a lot thinner!
(to Leia)
Get on top of it!

LEIA
I'm trying!

INT. DEATH STAR - MAIN FORWARD BAY - SERVICE PANEL

THREEPIO
(to Artoo)
Thank goodness, they haven't found 
them! Where could they be?

Artoo frantically beeps something to See-Threepio.

THREEPIO
Use the comlink? Oh, my! I forgot I 
turned it off!

INT. DEATH STAR - GARBAGE ROOM

Meanwhile, Luke is lying on his side, trying to keep his 
head above the rising ooze. Luke's comlink begins to buzz 
and he rips it off his belt.

INT. DEATH STAR - MAIN FORWARD BAY - SERVICE PANEL

Muffled sounds of Luke's voice over the comlink can be heard, 
but not distinctly.

THREEPIO
Are you there, sir?

INT. DEATH STAR - GARBAGE ROOM

LUKE
Threepio!

INT. DEATH STAR - MAIN FORWARD BAY - SERVICE PANEL

THREEPIO
We've had some problems...

LUKE
(over comlink)
Will you shut up and listen to me? 
Shut down all garbage mashers on the 
detention level, will you? Do you 
copy?

INT. DEATH STAR - GARBAGE ROOM

LUKE
Shut down all the garbage mashers on 
the detention level.

INT. DEATH STAR - MAIN FORWARD BAY - SERVICE PANEL

LUKE
(over comlink)
Shut down all the garbage mashers on 
the detention level.

THREEPIO
(to Artoo)
No. Shut them all down! Hurry!

Threepio holds his head in agony as he hears the incredible 
screaming and hollering from Luke's comlink.

THREEPIO
Listen to them! They're dying, Artoo! 
Curse my metal body! I wasn't fast 
enough. It's all my fault! My poor 
master!

LUKE
(over comlink)
Threepio, we're all right!

INT. DEATH STAR - GARBAGE ROOM

The screaming and hollering is the sound of joyous relief. 
The walls have stopped moving. Han, Chewie and Leia embrace 
in the background.

LUKE
We're all right. You did great.

Luke moves to the pressure sensitive hatch, looking for a 
number.

LUKE
Hey... hey, open the pressure 
maintenance hatch on unit number... 
where are we?

INT. DEATH STAR - MAIN FORWARD BAY - SERVICE PANEL

HAN
(over comlink)
Three-two-six-eight-two-seven.

INT. DEATH STAR - TRACTOR BEAM - POWER GENERATOR TRENCH

Ben enters a humming service trench that powers the huge 
tractor beam. The trench seems to be a hundred miles deep. 
The clacking sound of huge switching devices can be heard. 
The old Jedi edges his his way along a narrow ledge leading 
to a control panel that connects two large cables. He 
carefully makes several adjustments in the computer terminal, 
and several lights on the board go from red to blue.

INT. DEATH STAR - UNUSED HALLWAY

The group exits the garbage room into a dusty, unused hallway.  
Han and Luke remove the trooper suits and strap on the blaster 
belts.

HAN
If we can just avoid any more female 
advice, we ought to be able to get 
out of here.

Luke smiles and scratches his head as he takes a blaster 
from Solo.

LUKE
Well, let's get moving!

Chewie begins growling and points to the hatch to the garbage 
room, as he runs away and then stops howling.

HAN
(to Chewie)
Where are you going?

The Dia Nogu bangs against the hatch and a long, slimy 
tentacle works its way out of the doorway searching for a 
victim. Han aims his pistol.

LEIA
No, wait. They'll hear!

Han fires at the doorway. The noise of the blast echoes 
relentlessly throughout the empty passageway. Luke simply 
shakes his head in disgust.

HAN
(to Chewie)
Come here, you big coward!

Chewie shakes his head "no."

HAN
Chewie! Come here!

LEIA
Listen. I don't know who you are, or 
where you came from, but from now 
on, you do as I tell you. Okay?

Han is stunned at the command of the petite young girl.

HAN
Look, Your Worshipfulness, let's get 
one thing straight! I take orders 
from one person! Me!

LEIA
It's a wonder you're still alive.
(looking at Chewie)
Will somebody get this big walking 
carpet out of my way?

Han watches her start away. He looks at Luke.

HAN
No reward is worth this.

They follow her, moving swiftly down the deserted corridor.

INT. DEATH STAR - POWER TRENCH

Suddenly a door behind Ben slides open and a detachment of 
stormtroopers marches to the power trench. Ben instantly 
slips into the shadows as an Officer moves to within a few 
feet of him.

OFFICER
Secure this area until the alert is 
canceled.

FIRST TROOPER
Give me regular reports.

All but two of the stormtroopers leave.

FIRST TROOPER
Do you know what's going on?

SECOND TROOPER
Maybe it's another drill.

Ben moves around the tractor beam, watching the stormtroopers 
as they turn their backs to him. Ben gestures with his hand 
toward them, as the troops think they hear something in the 
other hallway. With the help of the Force, Ben deftly slips 
past the troopers and into the main hallway.

SECOND TROOPER
What was that?

FIRST TROOPER
Oh, it's nothing. Don't worry about 
it.

INT. DEATH STAR - HALLWAY

Luke, Han, Chewbacca, and Leia run down an empty hallway and 
stop before a bay window overlooking the pirateship. Troopers 
are milling about the ship. Luke takes out his pocket comlink.

HAN
(looking at his ship)
There she is.

LUKE
See-Threepio, do you copy?

THREEPIO
(voice)
For the moment. Uh, we're in the 
main hangar across from the ship.

LUKE
We're right above you. Stand by.

Han is watching the dozen or so troops moving in and out of 
the pirateship. Leia moves towards Han, touches his arm and 
points out the window to the ship.

LEIA
You came in that thing? You're braver 
that I thought.

HAN
Nice! Come on!

Han gives her a dirty look, and they start off down the 
hallway. They round a corner and run right into twenty 
Imperial stormtroopers heading toward them. Both groups are 
taken by surprise and stop in their tracks.

FIRST TROOPER
It's them! Blast them!

Before even thinking, Han draws his laser pistol and charges 
the troops, firing. His blaster knocks one of the 
stormtroopers into the air. Chewie follows his captain down 
the corridor, stepping over the fallen trooper on the floor.

HAN
(to Luke and Leia)
Get back to the ship!

LUKE
Where are you going? Come back!

Han has already rounded a corner and does not hear.

LEIA
He certainly has courage.

LUKE
What good will it do us if he gets 
himself killed? Come on!

Luke is furious but doesn't have time to think about it for 
muted alarms begin to go off down on the hangar deck. Luke 
and Leia start off toward the starship hangar.

INT. DEATH STAR - SUBHALLWAY

Han chases the stormtroopers down a long subhallway. He is 
yelling and brandishing his laser pistol. The troops reach a 
dead end and are forced to turn and fight. Han stops a few 
feet from them and assumes a defensive position. The troops 
begin to raise their laser guns. Soon all ten troopers are 
moving into an attack position in front of the lone 
starpirate. Han's determined look begins to fade as the troops 
begin to advance. Solo jumps backward as they fire at him.

INT. DEATH STAR - SUBHALLWAY

Chewbacca runs down the subhallway in a last-ditch attempt 
to save his bold captain. Suddenly he hears the firing of 
laser guns and yelling. Around the corner shoots Han, pirate 
extraordinaire, running for his life, followed by a host of 
furious stormtroopers. Chewbacca turns and starts running 
the other way also.

INT. DEATH STAR - SUBHALLWAY

Luke fires his laser pistol wildly as he and Leia rush down 
a narrow subhallway, chased by several stormtroopers. They 
quickly reach the end of the subhallway and race through an 
open hatchway.

INT. DEATH STAR - CENTRAL CORE SHAFT

Luke and Leia race through the hatch onto a narrow bridge 
that spans a huge, deep shaft that seems to go into infinity. 
The bridge has been retracted into the wall of the shaft, 
and Luke almost rushes into the abyss. He loses his balance 
off the end of the bridge as Leia, behind him, takes hold of 
his arm and pulls him back.

LUKE
(gasping)
I think we took a wrong turn.

Blasts from the stormtroopers' laser guns explode nearby 
reminding them of the oncoming danger. Luke fires back at 
the advancing troops. Leia reaches over and hits a switch 
that pops the hatch door shut with a resounding boom, leaving 
them precariously perched on a short piece of bridge overhang.  
Laserfire from the troopers continues to hit the steel door.

LEIA
There's no lock!

Luke blasts the controls with his laser pistol.

LUKE
That oughta hold it for a while.

LEIA
Quick, we've got to get across. Find 
the control that extends the bridge.

LUKE
Oh, I think I just blasted it.

Luke looks at the blasted bridge control while the 
stormtroopers on the opposite side of the door begin making 
ominous drilling and pounding sounds.

LEIA
They're coming through!

Luke notices something on his stormtrooper belt, when 
laserfire hits the wall behind him. Luke aims his laser pistol 
at a stormtrooper perched on a higher bridge overhang across 
the abyss from them. They exchange fire. Two more troops 
appear on another overhang, also firing. A trooper is hit, 
and grabs at his chest.

Another trooper standing on the bridge overhang is hit by 
Luke's laserfire, and plummets down the shaft. Troopers move 
back off the bridge; Luke hands the gun to Leia.

LUKE
Here, hold this.

Luke pulls a thin nylon cable from his trooper utility belt. 
It has a grappler hook on it. A trooper appears on a bridge 
overhang and fires at Luke and Leia. As Luke works with the 
rope, Leia returns the laser volley. Another trooper appears 
and fires at them, as Leia returns his fire as well.  
Suddenly, the hatch door begins to open, revealing the feet 
of more troops.

LEIA
Here they come!

Leia hits one of the stormtroopers on the bridge above, and 
he falls into the abyss. Luke tosses the rope across the 
gorge and it wraps itself around an outcropping of pipes. He 
tugs on the rope to make sure it is secure, then grabs the 
princess in his arms. Leia looks at Luke, then kisses him 
quickly on the lips. Luke is very surprised.

LEIA
For luck!

Luke pushes off and they swing across the treacherous abyss 
to the corresponding hatchway on the opposite side. Just as 
Luke and Leia reach the far side of the canyon, the 
stormtroopers break through the hatch and begin to fire at 
the escaping duo. Luke returns the fire before ducking into 
the tiny subhallway.

INT. DEATH STAR - NARROW PASSAGEWAY

Ben hides in the shadows of the narrow passageway as several 
stormtroopers rush past him in the main hallway. He checks 
to make sure they're gone, then runs down the hallway in the 
opposite direction. Darth Vader appears at the far end of 
the hallway and starts after the old Jedi.

INT. DEATH STAR - MAIN FORWARD BAY

Threepio looks around at the troops milling about the 
pirateship entry ramp.

THREEPIO
Where could they be?

Artoo, plugged into the computer socket, turns his dome left 
and right, beeping a response.

INT. DEATH STAR - CORRIDOR - BLAST SHIELDS DOOR

Han and Chewbacca run down a long corridor with several 
troopers hot on their trail.

TROOPER
Close the blast doors!

At the end of the hallway, blast doors begin to close in 
front of them. The young starpilot and his furry companion 
race past the huge doors just as they are closing, and manage 
to get off a couple off laserblasts at the pursuing troops 
before the doors slam shut.

TROOPER
Open the blast doors! Open the blast 
doors!

INT. DEATH STAR - HALLWAY LEADING TO MAIN FORWARD BAY

Ben hurries along one of the tunnels leading to the hangar 
where the pirateship waits. Just before he reaches the hangar, 
Darth Vader steps into view at the end of the tunnel, not 
ten feet away. Vader lights his saber. Ben also ignites his 
and steps slowly forward.

VADER
I've been waiting for you, Obi-Wan. 
We meet again, at last. The circle 
is now complete.

Ben Kenobi moves with elegant ease into a classical offensive 
position. The fearsome Dark Knight takes a defensive stance.

VADER
When I left you, I was but the 
learner; now I am the master.

BEN
Only a master of evil, Darth.

The two Galactic warriors stand perfectly still for a few 
moments, sizing each other up and waiting for the right 
moment. Ben seems to be under increasing pressure and strain, 
as if an invisible weight were being placed upon him. He 
shakes his head and, blinking, tries to clear his eyes.

Ben makes a sudden lunge at the huge warrior but is checked 
by a lightning movement of The Sith. A masterful slash stroke 
by Vader is blocked by the old Jedi. Another of the Jedi's 
blows is blocked, then countered. Ben moves around the Dark 
Lord and starts backing into the massive starship hangar. 
The two powerful warriors stand motionless for a few moments 
with laser swords locked in mid-air, creating a low buzzing 
sound.

VADER
Your powers are weak, old man.

BEN
You can't win, Darth. If you strike 
me down, I shall become more powerful 
than you can possibly imagine.

Their lightsabers continue to meet in combat.

INT. DEATH STAR - MAIN FORWARD BAY

Han Solo and Chewbacca, their weapons in hand, lean back 
against the wall surveying the forward bay, watching the 
Imperial stormtroopers make their rounds of the hangar.

HAN
Didn't we just leave this party?

Chewbacca growls a reply, as Luke and the princess join them.

HAN
What kept you?

LEIA
We ran into some old friends.

LUKE
Is the ship all right?

HAN
Seems okay, if we can get to it. 
Just hope the old man got the tractor 
beam out of commission.

INT. DEATH STAR - HALLWAY

Vader and Ben Kenobi continue their powerful duel. As they 
hit their lightsabers together, lightning flashes on impact. 
Troopers look on in interest as the old Jedi and Dark Lord 
of The Sith fight. Suddenly Luke spots the battle from his 
group's vantage point.

LUKE
Look!

Luke, Leia, Han, and Chewie look up and see Ben and Vader 
emerging from the hallways on the far side of the docking 
bay.

INT. DEATH STAR - DOCKING BAY

Threepio and Artoo-Detoo are in the center of the Death Star's 
Imperial docking bay.

THREEPIO
Come on, Artoo, we're going!

Threepio ducks out of sight as the seven stormtroopers who 
were guarding the starship rush past them heading towards 
Ben and The Sith Knight. He pulls on Artoo.

INT. DEATH STAR - HALLWAY

Solo, Chewie, Luke, and Leia tensely watch the duel. The 
troops rush toward the battling knights.

HAN
Now's our chance! Go!

They start for the Millennium Falcon. Ben sees the troops 
charging toward him and realizes that he is trapped. Vader 
takes advantage of Ben's momentary distraction and brings 
his mighty lightsaber down on the old man. Ben manages to 
deflect the blow and swiftly turns around.

The old Jedi Knight looks over his shoulder at Luke, lifts 
his sword from Vader's then watches his opponent with a serene 
look on his face.

Vader brings his sword down, cutting old Ben in half. Ben's 
cloak falls to the floor in two parts, but Ben is not in it.  
Vader is puzzled at Ben's disappearance and pokes at the 
empty cloak. As the guards are distracted, the adventurers 
and the robots reach the starship. Luke sees Ben cut in two 
and starts for him. Aghast, he yells out.

LUKE
No!

The stormtroopers turn toward Luke and begin firing at him.  
The robots are already moving up the ramp into the Millennium 
Falcon, while Luke, transfixed by anger and awe, returns 
their fire. Solo joins in the laserfire. Vader looks up and 
advances toward them, as one of his troopers is struck down.

HAN
(to Luke)
Come on!

LEIA
Come on! Luke, its too late!

HAN
Blast the door! Kid!

Luke fires his pistol at the door control panel, and it 
explodes. The door begins to slide shut. Three troopers charge 
forward firing laser bolts, as the door slides to a close 
behind them, shutting Vader and the other troops out of the 
docking bay. A stormtrooper lies dead at the feet of his 
onrushing compatriots. Luke starts for the advancing troops, 
as Solo and Leia move up the ramp into the pirateship. He 
fires, hitting a stormtrooper, who crumbles to the floor.

BEN'S VOICE
Run, Luke! Run!

Luke looks around to see where the voice came from. He turns 
toward the pirateship, ducking Imperial gunfire from the 
troopers and races into the ship.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Han pulls back on the controls and the ship begins to move. 
The dull thud of laser bolts bouncing off the outside of the 
ship as Chewie adjusts his controls.

HAN
I hope the old man got that tractor 
beam out if commission, or this is 
going to be a real short trip. Okay, 
hit it!

Chewbacca growls in agreement.

EXT. MILLENNIUM FALCON

The Millennium Falcon powers away from the Death Star docking 
bay, makes a spectacular turn and disappears into the vastness 
of space.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - CENTRAL HOLD AREA

Luke, saddened by the loss of Obi-Wan Kenobi, stares off 
blankly as the robots look on. Leia puts a blanket around 
him protectively, and Luke turns and looks up at her. She 
sits down beside him.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Solo spots approaching enemy ships.

HAN
(to Chewie)
We're coming up on the sentry ships. 
Hold 'em off! Angle the deflector 
shields while I charge up the main 
guns!

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - CENTRAL HOLD AREA

Luke looks downward sadly, shaking his head back and forth, 
as the princess smiles comfortingly at him.

LUKE
I can't believe he's gone.

Artoo-Detoo beeps a reply.

LEIA
There wasn't anything you could have 
done.

Han rushes into the hold area where Luke is sitting with the 
princess.

HAN
(to Luke)
Come on, buddy, we're not out of 
this yet!

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - GUNPORTS - COCKPIT

Solo climbs into his attack position in the topside gunport.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - HOLD AREA

Luke gets up and moves out toward the gunports as Leia heads 
for the cockpit.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - GUNPORTS - COCKPIT

Luke climbs down the ladder into the gunport cockpit, settling 
into one of the two main laser cannons mounted in large 
rotating turrets on either side of the ship.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - SOLO'S GUNPORT

Han adjusts his headset as he sits before the controls of 
his laser cannon, then speaks into the attached microphone.

HAN
(to Luke)
You in, kid? Okay, stay sharp!

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - GUNPORTS - COCKPIT

Chewbacca and Princess Leia search the heavens for attacking 
TIE fighters. The Wookiee pulls back on the speed controls 
as the ship bounces slightly.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - SOLO'S GUNPORT - COCKPIT

Computer graphic readouts form on Solo's target screen, as 
Han reaches for controls.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - GUNPORT - COCKPIT

Luke sits in readiness for the attack, his hand on the laser 
cannon's control button.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT.

Chewbacca spots the enemy ships and barks.

LEIA
(into intercom)
Here they come!

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT - POV (POINT OF VIEW) - 
SPACE

The Imperial TIE fighters move towards the Millennium Falcon, 
one each veering off to the left and right of the pirateship.

INT. TIE FIGHTER - COCKPIT

The stars whip past behind the Imperial pilot as he adjusts 
his maneuvering joy stick.

EXT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - IN SPACE

The TIE fighter races past the Falcon, firing laser beams as 
it passes.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - HOLD AREA

Threepio is seated in the hold area, next to Artoo-Detoo. 
The pirateship bounces and vibrates as the power goes out in 
the room and then comes back on.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT - GUNPORTS

A TIE fighter maneuvers in front of Han, who follows it and 
fires at it with the laser cannon. Luke does likewise, as 
the fighter streaks into view. The ship has suffered a minor 
hit, and bounces slightly.

EXT. SPACE

Two TIE fighters dive down toward the pirateship.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - GUNPORTS

Luke fires at an unseen fighter.

LUKE
They're coming in too fast!

EXT. SPACE - MILLENNIUM FALCON/TIE FIGHTERS

Pan with pirateship as two TIE fighters charge through the 
background. Laserbolts streak from all the craft.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - CHEWBACCA

The ship shudders as a laserbolt hits very close to the 
cockpit. The Wookiee chatters something to Leia.

EXT. TIE FIGHTER - SPACE

Full shot of a TIE fighter as it moves fast through the frame, 
firing on the pirate starship.

EXT. SPACE - TIE FIGHTERS

The two TIE fighters fire a barrage of laserbeams at the 
pirateship.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - MAIN PASSAGEWAY

A laserbolt streaks into the side of the pirateship. The 
ship lurches violently, throwing poor Threepio into a cabinet 
fill of small computer chips.

THREEPIO
Oooh!

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT - GUNPORTS

Leia watches the computer readout as Chewbacca manipulates 
the ship's controls.

LEIA
We've lost lateral controls.

HAN
Don't worry, she'll hold together.

An enemy laserbolt hits the pirateship's control panel, 
causing it to blow out in a shower of sparks.

HAN
(to ship)
You hear me, baby? Hold together!

Artoo-Detoo advances toward the smoking sparking control 
panel, dousing the inferno by spraying it with fire retardant 
beeping all the while.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - GUNPORT

Luke swivels in his gun mount, following the TIE fighter 
with his laser cannon.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - GUNPORT

Solo aims his laser cannon at the enemy fighter.

EXT. SPACE

A TIE fighter streaks in front of the starship.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Leia watches the TIE fighter ship fly over.

EXT. SPACE

A TIE fighter heads right for the pirateship, then zooms 
overhead.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - GUNPORTS

Luke follows the TIE fighter across his field of view, firing 
laserbeams from his cannon.

EXT. TIE FIGHTER

A TIE fighter dives past the pirateship.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - GUNPORTS

Luke fires at a TIE fighter. At his port, Han follows a 
fighter in his sights, releasing a blast of laserfire. He 
connects, and the fighter explodes into fiery dust. Han laughs 
victoriously.

EXT. SPACE

Two TIE fighters move toward and over the Millennium Falcon, 
unleashing a barrage of laserbolts at the ship.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - GUNPORTS

Another TIE fighter moves in on the pirateship and Luke, 
smiling, fires the laser cannon at it, scoring a spectacular 
direct hit.

LUKE
Got him! I got him!

Han turns and gives Luke a victory wave which Luke gleefully 
returns.

HAN
Great kid! Don't get cocky.

Han turns back to his laser cannon.

EXT. SPACE

Two more TIE fighters cross in front of the pirateship.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

While Chewbacca manipulates the controls, Leia turns, looking 
over her shoulder out the ports.

LEIA
There are still two more of them out 
there!

EXT. SPACE

A TIE fighter moves up over the pirateship, firing laserblasts 
at it.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - GUNPORTS

Luke and Han look into their respective projected target 
screens. An Imperial fighter crosses Solo's port, and Han 
swivels in his chair, following it with blasts from his laser 
cannon. Another fighter crosses Luke's port, and he reacts 
in a like manner, the glow of his target screen lighting his 
face.

EXT. SPACE

The TIE fighter zooms toward the pirateship, firing 
destructive blasts at it.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - GUNPORTS

Luke fires a laserblast at the approaching enemy fighter, 
and it bursts into a spectacular explosion. Luke's projected 
screen gives a readout of the hit. The pirateship bounces 
slightly as it is struck by the enemy fire.

EXT. SPACE - TIE FIGHTER

The last of the attacking Imperial TIE fighters looms in, 
firing upon the Falcon.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - GUNPORT

Solo swivels behind his cannon, his aim describing the arc 
of the TIE fighter. The fighter comes closer, firing at the 
pirateship, but a well-aimed blast from Solo's laser cannon 
hits the attacker, which blows up in a small atomic shower 
of burning fragments.

LUKE
(laughing)
That's it! We did it!

The princess jumps up and gives Chewie a congratulatory hug.

LEIA
We did it!

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - PASSAGEWAY

Threepio lies on the floor of the ship, completely tangled 
in the smoking, sparking wires.

THREEPIO
Help! I think I'm melting!
(to Artoo)
This is all your fault.

Artoo turns his dome from side to side, beeping in response.

EXT. SPACE - MILLENNIUM FALCON

The victorious Millennium Falcon moves off majestically 
through space.

INT. DEATH STAR - CONTROL ROOM

Darth Vader strides into the control room, where Tarkin is 
watching the huge view screen. A sea of stars is before him.

TARKIN
Are they away?

VADER
They have just made the jump into 
hyperspace.

TARKIN
You're sure the homing beacon is 
secure aboard their ship? I'm taking 
an awful risk, Vader. This had better 
work.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Han, removes his gloves and smiling, is at the controls of 
the ship. Chewie moves into the aft section to check the 
damage. Leia is seated near Han.

HAN
Not a bad bit of rescuing, huh? You 
know, sometimes I even amaze myself.

LEIA
That doesn't sound too hard. Besides, 
they let us go. It's the only 
explanation for the ease of our 
escape.

HAN
Easy... you call that easy?

LEIA
Their tracking us!

HAN
Not this ship, sister.

Frustrated, Leia shakes her head.

LEIA
At least the information in Artoo is 
still intact.

HAN
What's so important? What's he 
carrying?

LEIA
The technical readouts of that battle 
station. I only hope that when the 
data is analyzed, a weakness can be 
found. It's not over yet!

HAN
It is for me, sister! Look, I ain't 
in this for your revolution, and I'm 
not in it for you, Princess. I expect 
to be well paid. I'm in it for the 
money!

LEIA
You needn't worry about your reward. 
If money is all that you love, then 
that's what you'll receive!

She angrily turns, and as she starts out of the cockpit, 
passes Luke coming in.

LEIA
Your friend is quite a mercenary. I 
wonder if he really cares about 
anything... or anyone.

LUKE
I care!

Luke, shaking his head, sits in the copilot seat. He and Han 
stare out at the vast blackness of space.

LUKE
So... what do you think of her, Han?

HAN
I'm trying not to, kid!

LUKE
(under his breath)
Good...

HAN
Still, she's got a lot of spirit. I 
don't know, what do you think? Do 
you think a princess and a guy like 
me...

LUKE
No!

Luke says it with finality and looks away. Han smiles at 
young Luke's jealousy.

EXT. SPACE AROUND FOURTH MOON OF YAVIN

The battered pirateship drifts into orbit around the planet 
Yavin and proceeds to one of its tiny green moons.

EXT. FOURTH MOON OF YAVIN

The pirateship soars over the dense jungle.

EXT. MASSASSI OUTPOST

An alert guard, his laser gun in hand, scans the countryside.  
He sets the gun down and looks toward the temple, barely 
visible in the foliage.

EXT. MASSASSI OUTPOST - JUNGLE TEMPLE

Rotting in a forest of gargantuan trees, an ancient temple 
lies shrouded in an eerie mist. The air is heavy with the 
fantastic cries of unimaginable creatures. Han, Luke and the 
others are greeted by the Rebel troops.

Luke and the group ride into the massive temple on an armored 
military speeder.

INT. MASSASSI - MAIN HANGAR DECK

The military speeder stops in a huge spaceship hangar, set 
up in the interior of the crumbling temple. Willard, the 
commander of the Rebel forces, rushes up to the group and 
gives Leia a big hug. Every one is pleased to see her.

WILLARD
(holding Leia)
You're safe! We had feared the worst.

Willard composes himself, steps back and bows formally.

WILLARD
When we heard about Alderaan, we 
were afraid that you were... lost 
along with your father.

LEIA
We don't have time for our sorrows, 
Commander. The battle station has 
surely tracked us here.
(looking pointedly to 
Han)
It's the only explanation for the 
ease of our escape. You must use the 
information in this R2 unit to plan 
the attack. It is our only hope.

EXT. SPACE

The surface of the Death Star ominously approaches the red 
planet Yavin.

INT. DEATH STAR - CONTROL ROOM

Grand Moff Tarkin and Lord Vader are interrupted in their 
discussion by the buzz of the comlink. Tarkin moves to answer 
the call.

TARKIN
Yes.

DEATH STAR INTERCOM VOICE

We are approaching the planet Yavin. The Rebel base is on a 
moon on the far side. We are preparing to orbit the planet.

EXT. YAVIN - JUNGLE

A lone guard stands in a tower high above the Yavin landscape, 
surveying the countryside. A mist hangs over the jungle of 
twisted green.

INT. MASSASSI - WAR ROOM BRIEFING AREA

Dodonna stands before a large electronic wall display. Leia 
and several other senators are to one side of the giant 
readout. The low-ceilinged room is filled with starpilots, 
navigators, and a sprinkling of R2-type robots. Everyone is 
listening intently to what Dodonna is saying. Han and 
Chewbacca are standing near the back.

DODONNA
The battle station is heavily shielded 
and carries a firepower greater than 
half the star fleet. It's defenses 
are designed around a direct large-
scale assault. A small one-man fighter 
should be able to penetrate the outer 
defense.

Gold Leader, a rough looking man in his early thirties, stands 
and addresses Dodonna.

GOLD LEADER
Pardon me for asking, sir, but what 
good are snub fighters going to be 
against that?

DODONNA
Well, the Empire doesn't consider a 
small one-man fighter to be any 
threat, or they'd have a tighter 
defense. An analysis of the plans 
provided by Princess Leia has 
demonstrated a weakness in the battle 
station.

Artoo-Detoo stands next to a similar robot, makes beeping 
sounds, and turns his head from right to left.

DODONNA
The approach will not be easy. You 
are required to maneuver straight 
down this trench and skim the surface 
to this point. The target area is 
only two meters wide. It's a small 
thermal exhaust port, right below 
the main port. The shaft leads 
directly to the reactor system. A 
precise hit will start a chain 
reaction which should destroy the 
station.

A murmer of disbelief runs through the room.

DODONNA
Only a precise hit will set up a 
chain reaction. The shaft is ray-
shielded, so you'll have to use proton 
torpedoes.

Luke is sitting next to Wedge Antilles, a hotshot pilot about 
sixteen years old.

WEDGE
That's impossible, even for a 
computer.

LUKE
It's not impossible. I used to bull's-
eye womp rats in my T-sixteen back 
home. They're not much bigger than 
two meters.

DODONNA
Man your ships! And may the Force be 
with you!

The group rises and begins to leave.

EXT. SPACE

The Death Star begins to move around the planet toward the 
tiny green moon.

INT. DEATH STAR

Tarkin and Vader watch the computer projected screen with 
interest, as a circle of lights intertwines around one another 
on the screen showing it's position in relation to Yavin and 
the forth moon.

DEATH STAR INTERCOM VOICE

Orbiting the planet at maximum velocity. The moon with the 
Rebel base will be in range in thirty minutes.

VADER
This will be a day long remembered. 
It has seen the end of Kenobi and it 
will soon see the end of the 
Rebellion.

INT. MASSASSI OUTPOST - MAIN HANGAR DECK

Luke, Threepio and little Artoo enter the huge spaceship 
hangar and hurry along a long line of gleaming spacefighters.  
Flight crews rush around loading last-minute armaments and 
unlocking power couplings. In an area isolated from this 
activity Luke finds Han and Chewbacca loading small boxes 
onto an armored speeder.

MAN'S VOICE
(over loudspeaker)
All flight trooper, man your stations. 
All flight troops, man your stations.

Han is deliberately ignoring the activity of the fighter 
pilots' preparation. Luke is quite saddened at the sight of 
his friend's departure.

LUKE
So... you got your reward and you're 
just leaving then?

HAN
That's right, yeah! I got some old 
debts I've got to pay off with this 
stuff. Even if I didn't, you don't 
think I'd be fool enough to stick 
around here, do you? Why don't you 
come with us? You're pretty good in 
a fight. I could use you.

LUKE
(getting angry)
Come on! Why don't you take a look 
around? You know what's about to 
happen, what they're up against. 
They could use a good pilot like 
you. You're turning your back on 
them.

HAN
What good's a reward if you ain't 
around to use it? Besides, attacking 
that battle station ain't my idea of 
courage. It's more like suicide.

LUKE
All right. Well, take care of 
yourself, Han. I guess that's what 
you're best at, isn't it?

Luke goes off and Han hesitates, then calls to him.

HAN
Hey, Luke... may the Force be with 
you!

Luke turns and sees Han wink at him. Luke lifts his hand in 
a small wave and then goes off.

Han turns to Chewie who growls at his captain,

HAN
What're you lookin' at? I know what 
I'm doing.

INT. MAIN HANGAR DECK - LUKE'S SHIP

Luke, Leia, and Dodonna meet under a huge space fighter.

LEIA
What's wrong?

LUKE
Oh, it's Han! I don't know, I really 
thought he'd change his mind.

LEIA
He's got to follow his own path. No 
one can choose it for him.

LUKE
I only wish Ben were here.

Leia gives Luke a little kiss, turns, and goes off. As Luke 
heads for his ship, another pilot rushes up to him and grabs 
his arm.

BIGGS
Luke! I don't believe it! How'd you 
get here... are you going out with 
us?!

LUKE
Biggs! Of course, I'll be up there 
with you! Listen, have I got some 
stories to tell...

Red Leader, a rugged handsome man in his forties, comes up 
behind Luke and Biggs. He has the confident smile of a born 
leader.

RED LEADER
Are you... Luke Skywalker? Have you 
been checked out on the Incom T-sixty-
five?

BIGGS
Sir, Luke is the best bushpilot in 
the outer rim territories.

Red Leader pats Luke on the back as they stop in front of 
his fighter.

RED LEADER
I met your father once when I was 
just a boy, he was a great pilot. 
You'll do all right. If you've got 
half of your father's skill, you'll 
do better than all right.

LUKE
Thank you, sir. I'll try.

Red Leader hurries to his own ship.

BIGGS
I've got to get aboard. Listen, you'll 
tell me your stories when we come 
back. All right?

LUKE
I told you I'd make it someday, Biggs.

BIGGS
(going off)
You did, all right. It's going to be 
like old times, Luke. We're a couple 
of shooting stars that'll never be 
stopped!

Luke laughs and shakes his head in agreement. He heads for 
his ship.

As Luke begins to climb up the ladder into his sleek, deadly 
spaceship, the crew chief, who is working on the craft, points 
to little Artoo, who is being hoisted into a socket on the 
back of the fighter.

CHIEF
This R2 unit of your seems a bit 
beat up. Do you want a new one?

LUKE
Not on your life! That little droid 
and I have been through a lot 
together.
(to Artoo)
You okay, Artoo?

The crewmen lower Artoo-Detoo into the craft. Now a part of 
the exterior shell of the starship, the little droid beeps 
that he is fine.

Luke climbs up into the cockpit of his fighter and puts an 
his helmet. Threepio looks on from the floor of the massive 
hangar as the crewmen secure his little electronic partner 
into Luke's X-wing. It's an emotional-filled moment as Artoo 
beeps good-bye.

CHIEF
Okay, easy she goes!

THREEPIO
Hang on tight,Artoo, you've got to 
come back.

Artoo beeps in agreement.

THREEPIO
You wouldn't want my life to get 
boring, would you?

Artoo whistles his reply.

All final preparations are made for the approaching battle.  
The hangar is buzzing with the last minute activity as the 
pilots and crewmen alike make their final adjustments. The 
hum of activity is occasionally trespassed by the distorted 
voice of the loudspeaker issuing commands. Coupling hoses 
are disconnected from the ships as they are fueled. Cockpit 
shields roll smoothly into place over each pilot. A signalman, 
holding red guiding lights, directs the ships. Luke, a trace 
of a smile gracing his lips, peers about through his goggles.

BEN'S VOICE
Luke, the Force will be with you.

Luke is confused at the voice and taps his headphones.

EXT. MASSASSI OUTPOST - JUNGLE

All that can be seen of the fortress is a lone guard standing 
on a small pedestal jutting out above the dense jungle. The 
muted gruesome crying sounds that naturally permeate this 
eerie purgatory are overwhelmed by the thundering din of ion 
rockets as four silver starships catapult from the foliage 
in a tight formation and disappears into the morning cloud 
cover.

INT. MASSASSI OUTPOST - WAR ROOM

The princess, Threepio, and a field commander sit quietly 
before the giant display showing the planet Yavin and its 
four moons. The red dot that represents the Death Star moves 
ever closer to the system. A series of green dots appear 
around the fourth moon. A din of indistinct chatter fills 
the war room.

MASSASSI INTERCOM VOICE
Stand-by alert. Death Star 
approaching. Estimated time to firing 
range, fifteen minutes.

EXT. SPACE

The Death Star slowly moves behind the massive yellow surface 
of Yavin in the foreground, as many X-wing fighters flying 
in formation zoom toward us and out of the frame.

EXT. SPACE - ANOTHER ANGLE

Light from a distant sun creates an eerie atmospheric glow 
around a huge planet, Yavin. Rebel fighters flying in 
formation settle ominously in the foreground and very slowly 
pull away.

INT. RED LEADER STARSHIP - COCKPIT

Red Leader lowers his visor and adjusts his gun sights, 
looking to each side at his wing men.

RED LEADER
All wings report in.

INT. ANOTHER COCKPIT

One of the Rebel fighters checks in through his mike.

RED TEN
Red Ten standing by.

INT. BIGGS' COCKPIT

Biggs checks his fighter's controls, alert and ready for 
combat.

RED SEVEN
(over Biggs' headset)
Red Seven standing by.

BIGGS
Red Three standing by.

INT. PORKINS' COCKPIT

PORKINS
Red Six standing by.

RED NINE
(over headset)
Red Nine standing by.

INT. WEDGE'S FIGHTER - COCKPIT

WEDGE
Red Two standing by.

INT. LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER - COCKPIT

RED ELEVEN
(over headset)
Red Eleven standing by.

LUKE
Red Five standing by.

EXT. LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER

Artoo-Detoo, in position outside of the fighter, turns his 
head from side to side and makes beeping sounds.

INT. RED LEADER'S FIGHTER - COCKPIT

RED LEADER
Lock S-foils in attack position.

EXT. SPACE

The group of X-wing fighters move in formation toward the 
Death Star, unfolding the wings and locking them in the "X" 
position.

INT. BIGGS' COCKPIT

READ LEADER
(over headset)
We're passing through their magnetic 
field.

INT. RED LEADER'S COCKPIT

RED LEADER
Hold tight!

INT. LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER - COCKPIT

Luke adjusts his controls as he concentrates on the 
approaching Death Star. The ship begins to be buffeted 
slightly.

RED LEADER
(over headset)
Switch your deflectors on.

INT. ANOTHER COCKPIT

RED LEADER
(over headset)
Double front!

EXT. SPACE

The fighters, now X-shaped darts, move in formation. The 
Death Star now appears to be a small moon growing rapidly in 
size as the Rebel fighters approach. Complex patterns on the 
metallic surface begin to become visible. A large dish antenna 
is built into the surface on one side.

INT. WEDGE'S COCKPIT

Wedge is amazed and slightly frightened at the awesome 
spectacle.

WEDGE
Look at the size of that thing!

RED LEADER
(over headset)
Cut the chatter, Red Two.

INT. RED LEADER'S COCKPIT

RED LEADER
Accelerate to attack speed. This is 
it, boys!

EXT. SPACE

As the fighters move closer to the Death Star, the awesome 
size of the gargantuan Imperial fortress is revealed. Half 
of the deadly space station is in shadow and this area 
sparkles with thousands of small lights running in thin lines 
and occasionally grouped in large clusters; somewhat like a 
city at night as seen from a weather satellite.

INT. GOLD LEADER'S COCKPIT

GOLD LEADER
Red Leader, this is Gold Leader.

RED LEADER
(over headset)
I copy, Gold Leader.

GOLD LEADER
We're starting for the target shaft 
now.

INT. RED LEADER'S COCKPIT

Red Leader looks around at his wingmen; the Death Star looming 
in from behind. Two Y-wing fighters bob back and forth in 
the background. He moves his computer targeting device into 
position.

RED LEADER
We're in position. I'm going to cut 
across the axis and try and draw 
their fire.

EXT. SPACE

Two squads of Rebel fighters peel off. The X-wings dive 
towards the Death Star surface. A thousand lights glow across 
the dark grey expanse of the huge station.

INT. DEATH STAR

Alarm sirens scream as soldiers scramble to large turbo- 
powered laser gun emplacements. Electronic drivers rotate 
the huge guns into position as crew adjust their targeting 
devices.

EXT. SPACE AROUND THE DEATH STAR

Laserbolts streak through the star-filled night. The Rebel X-
wing fighters move in toward the Imperial base, as the Death 
Star aims its massive laser guns at the Rebel forces and 
fires.

INT. MASSASSI OUTPOST - WAR ROOM

Princess Leia listens to the battle over the intercom.  
Threepio is at her side.

WEDGE
(over war room speaker 
system)
Heavy fire, boss! Twenty-degrees.

RED LEADER
(over speaker)
I see it. Stay low.

EXT. SPACE

An X-wing zooms across the surface of the Death Star.

INT. DEATH STAR

Technical crews scurry here and there loading last-minute 
armaments and unlocking power cables.

INT. WEDGE'S COCKPIT

Wedge maneuvers his fighter toward the menacing Death Star.

EXT. SPACE

X-wings continue in their attack course on the Death Star.

INT. LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER - COCKPIT

Luke nosedives radically, starting his attack on the monstrous 
fortress. The Death Star surface streaks past the cockpit 
window.

LUKE
This is Red Five; I'm going in!

EXT. SPACE

Luke's X-wing races toward the Death Star. Laserbolts streak 
from Luke's weapons, creating a huge fireball explosion on 
the dim surface.

INT. LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER - COCKPIT

Terror crosses Luke's face as he realizes he won't be able 
to pull out in time to avoid the fireball.

BIGGS
(over headset)
Luke, pull up!

EXT. SURFACE OF DEATH STAR

Luke's ship emerges from the fireball, with the leading edges 
of his wings slightly scorched.

INT. BIGGS' COCKPIT

BIGGS
Are you all right?

INT. LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER - COCKPIT

Luke adjusts his controls and breathes a sigh of relief. 
Flak bursts outside the cockpit window.

LUKE
I got a little cooked, but I'm okay.

EXT. SURFACE OF THE DEATH STAR

Rebel fighters continue to strafe the Death Star's surface 
with laserbolts.

INT. DEATH STAR

Walls buckle and cave in. Troops and equipment are blown in 
all directions. Stormtroopers stagger out of the rubble.  
Standing in the middle of the chaos, a vision of calm and 
foreboding, is Darth Vader. One of his Astro-Officers rushes 
up to him.

ASTRO-OFFICER
We count thirty Rebel ships, Lord 
Vader. But they're so small they're 
evading our turbo-lasers!

VADER
We'll have to destroy them ship to 
ship. Get the crews to their fighters.

INT. DEATH STAR

Smoke belches from the giant laser guns as they wind up their 
turbine generators to create sufficient power. The crew rushes 
about preparing for another blast. Even the troopers head 
gear is not adequate to protect them from the overwhelming 
noise of the monstrous weapon. One troopers bangs his helmet 
with his hand in an attempt to stop the ringing.

INT. READ LEADER'S X-WING FIGHTER - COCKPIT - TRAVELING

Red Leader flies through a heavy hail of flak.

RED LEADER
Luke, let me know when you're going 
in.

INT. LUKE'S X-WING - COCKPIT - TRAVELING

The Red Leader's X-wing flies past Luke as he puts his nose 
down and starts his attack dive.

LUKE
I'm on my way in now...

RED LEADER
Watch yourself! There's a lot of 
fire coming from the right side of 
that deflection tower.

LUKE
I'm on it.

EXT. SURFACE OF THE DEATH STAR

Luke flings his X-wing into a twisting dive across the horizon 
and down onto the dim grey surface.

EXT. LUKE'S X-WING TRAVELING

A shot hurls from Luke's guns. Laserbolts streak toward the 
onrushing Death Star surface. Several small radar emplacements 
erupt in flame. Laserfire erupts from a protruding tower on 
the surface.

INT. LUKE'S X-WING - COCKPIT - TRAVELING

The blurry Death Star surface races past the cockpit window 
as a big smile sweeps across Luke's face at the success of 
his run. Flak thunders on all sides of him.

EXT. SURFACE OF THE DEATH STAR

The Death Star superstructure races past Luke as he maneuvers 
his craft through a wall of laserfire and peels away from 
the surface towards the heavens.

INT. DEATH STAR

The thunder and smoke of the big guns reverberate throughout 
the massive structure. Many soldiers rush about in the smoke 
and chaos, silhouetted by the almost continual flash of 
explosions.

INT. BIGGS' COCKPIT - TRAVELING

Biggs dives through a forest of radar domes, antennae, and 
gun towers as he shoots low across the Death Star surface. A 
dense barrage of laserfire streaks by on all sides.

INT. DEATH STAR

Imperial star pilots dash in unison to a line of small 
auxiliary hatches that lead to Imperial TIE fighters.

INT. MASSASSI OUTPOST - WAR ROOM

Princess Leia, surrounded by her generals and aides, paces 
nervously before a lighted computer table. On all sides 
technicians work in front of many lighted glass walls. Dodonna 
watches quietly from one corner. One of the officers working 
over a screen speaks into his headset.

CONTROL OFFICER
Squad leaders, we've picked up a new 
group of signals. Enemy fighters 
coming your way.

INT. LUKE'S X-WING - COCKPIT - TRAVELING

Luke looks around to see if he can spot the approaching 
Imperial fighters.

LUKE
My scope's negative. I don't see 
anything.

INT. RED LEADER'S X-WING - COCKPIT - TRAVELING

The Death Star's surface sweeps past as Red Leader searches 
the sky for the Imperial fighters. Flak pounds at his ship.

RED LEADER
Keep up your visual scanning. With 
all this jamming, they'll be on top 
of you before your scope can pick 
them up.

EXT. SURFACE OF THE DEATH STAR

Silhouetted against the rim lights of the Death Star horizon, 
four ferocious Imperial TIE ships dive on the Rebel fighters.  
Two of the TIE fighters peel off and drop out of frame. Pan 
with the remaining two TIE ships.

INT. BIGGS' COCKPIT - TRAVELING

Biggs panics when he discovers a TIE ship on his tail. The 
horizon in the background twists around as he peels off, 
hoping to lose the Imperial fighter.

INT. RED LEADER'S COCKPIT

RED LEADER
Biggs! You've picked one up... watch 
it!

BIGGS
I can't see it! Where is he?!

EXT. SPACE AROUND THE DEATH STAR

Biggs zooms off the surface and into space, closely followed 
by an Imperial TIE fighter. The TIE ship fires several 
laserbolts at Biggs, but misses.

INT. BIGGS' COCKPIT - TRAVELING

Biggs see the TIE ship behind him and swings around, trying 
to avoid him.

BIGGS
He's on me tight, I can't shake him... 
I can't shake him.

EXT. SPACE AROUND THE DEATH STAR

Biggs, flying at high altitude, peels off and dives toward 
the Death Star surface, but he is unable to lose the TIE 
fighter, who sticks close to his tail.

INT. X-WING FIGHTER - COCKPIT - TRAVELING

Luke is flying upside down. He rotates his ship around to 
normal attitude as he comes out of his dive.

LUKE
Hang on, Biggs, I'm coming in.

EXT. SPACE AROUND THE DEATH STAR

Biggs and the tailing TIE ship dive for the surface, now 
followed by a fast-gaining Luke. After Biggs dives out of 
sight, Luke chases the Imperial fighter.

EXT. SURFACE AROUND THE DEATH STAR

In the foreground, the Imperial fighter races across the 
Death Star's surface, closely followed by Luke in the 
background.

INT. LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER - COCKPIT - TRAVELING

There is a shot from Luke's X-wing of the TIE ship exploding 
in a mass of flames.

LUKE
Got him!

INT. DEATH STAR

Darth Vader strides purposefully down a Death Star corridor, 
flanked by Imperial stormtroopers.

VADER
Several fighters have broken off 
from the main group. Come with me!

INT. MASSASSI OUTPOST - WAR ROOM

A concerned Princess Leia, Threepio, Dodonna, and other 
officers of the Rebellion stand around the huge round readout 
screen, listening to the ship-to-ship communication on the 
room's loudspeaker.

BIGGS
(over speaker)
Pull in! Luke... pull in!

WEDGE
(over speaker)
Watch your back, Luke!

INT. LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER - COCKPIT

WEDGE
(over headset)
Watch your back! Fighter's above 
you, coming in!

EXT. SPACE

Luke's ship soars away from the Death Star's surface as he 
spots the tailing TIE fighter.

INT. TIE FIGHTER'S COCKPIT

The TIE pilot takes aim at Luke's X-wing.

EXT. SPACE

The Imperial TIE fighter pilot scores a hit on Luke's ship.  
Fire breaks out on the right side of the X-wing.

INT. LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER - COCKPIT

Luke looks out of his cockpit at the flames on his ship.

LUKE
I'm hit, but not bad.

EXT. LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER

Smoke pours out from behind Artoo-Detoo.

LUKE'S VOICE
Artoo, see what you can do with it. 
Hang on back there.

Green laserfire moves past the beeping little robot as his 
head turns.

INT. LUKE'S X-WING - COCKPIT

Luke nervously works his controls.

RED LEADER
(over headset)
Red Six...

INT. MASSASSI OUTPOST - WAR ROOM

In the war room, Leia stands frozen as she listens and worries 
about Luke.

RED LEADER
(over speaker)
Can you see Red Five?

RED TEN
(over speaker)
There's a heavy fire zone on this 
side. Red Five, where are you?

INT. LUKE'S X-WING - COCKPIT

Luke spots the TIE fighter behind him and soars away from 
the Death Star surface.

LUKE
I can't shake him!

EXT. SURFACE OF THE DEATH STAR

Luke's ship soars closer to the surface of the Death Star, 
an Imperial TIE fighter closing in on him in hot pursuit.

INT. WEDGE'S COCKPIT

The Death Star whips below Wedge.

WEDGE
I'm on him, Luke!

INT. LUKE'S X-WING - COCKPIT

WEDGE
(over headset)
Hold on!

EXT. SURFACE OF THE DEATH STAR

Wedge dives across the horizon toward Luke and the TIE 
fighter.

INT. WEDGE'S COCKPIT

Wedge moves his X-wing in rapidly.

INT. LUKE'S X-WING - COCKPIT

Luke reacts frantically.

LUKE
Blast it! Wedge where are you?

INT. TIE FIGHTER - COCKPIT

The fighter pilot watches Wedge's X-wing approach. Another X-
wing joins him, and both unleash a volley of laserfire on 
the Imperial fighter.

EXT. SPACE

The TIE fighter explodes, filling the screen with white light.  
Luke's ship can be seen far in the distance.

INT. LUKE'S X-WING - COCKPIT

Luke looks about in relief.

LUKE
Thanks, Wedge.

INT. MASSASSI OUTPOST - WAR ROOM

Leia, Threepio, Dodonna and other Rebel officers are listening 
to the Rebel Fighter's radio transmissions over the war room 
intercom.

BIGGS
(over speaker)
Good shooting, Wedge!

GOLD LEADER
(over speaker)
Red Leader...

INT. GOLD LEADER'S Y-WING - COCKPIT

Gold Leader peels off and starts toward the long trenches at 
the Death Star surface pole.

GOLD LEADER
This is Gold Leader. We're starting 
out attack run.

EXT. SPACE AROUND THE DEATH STAR

Three Y-wing fighters of the Gold group dive out of the stars 
toward the Death Star surface.

INT. MASSASSI OUTPOST - WAR ROOM

Leia and the others are grouped around the screen, as 
technicians move about attending to their duties.

RED LEADER
(over speaker)
I copy, Gold Leader. Move into 
position.

EXT. SPACE AROUND THE DEATH STAR

Three Imperial TIE ships in precise formation dive toward 
the Death Star surface.

INT. DARTH VADER'S COCKPIT

Darth Vader calmly adjusts his control stick as the stars 
whip past in the window above his head.

VADER
Stay in attack formation!

INT. MASSASSI OUTPOST - WAR ROOM

Technicians are seated at the computer readout table.

GOLD LEADER
(over speaker)
The exhaust post is...

INT. GOLD LEADER'S Y-WING - COCKPIT

GOLD LEADER
...marked and locked in!

EXT. SPACE AROUND THE DEATH STAR

Gold Leader approaches the surface and pulls out to skim the 
surface of the huge station. The ship moves into a deep 
trench, firing laserbolts. The surface streaks past as 
laserfire is returned by the Death Star.

INT. GOLD FIVE'S Y-WING - COCKPIT - TRAVELING

Gold Five is a pilot in his early fifties with a very battered 
helmet that looks like it's been through many battles. He 
looks around to see if enemy ships are near. His fighter is 
buffeted by Imperial flak.

INT. GOLD LEADER'S Y-WING - COCKPIT

Gold Leader races down the enormous trench that leads to the 
exhaust port. Laserbolts blast toward him in increasing 
numbers, occasionally exploding near the ship causing it to 
bounce about.

GOLD LEADER
Switch power to front deflector 
screens.

EXT. SURFACE OF THE DEATH STAR

Three Y-wing skim the Death Star surface deep in the trench, 
as laserbolts streak past on all sides.

EXT. DEATH STAR SURFACE - GUN EMPLACEMENTS

An exterior surface gun blazes away at the oncoming Rebel 
fighters.

INT. GOLD LEADER'S Y-WING - COCKPIT

GOLD LEADER
How many guns do you think, Gold 
Five.

INT. MASSASSI OUTPOST - WAR ROOM

GOLD FIVE
(over speaker)
I'd say about twenty guns. Some on 
the surface, some on the towers.

Leia, Threepio, and the technicians view the projected target 
screen, as red and blue target lights glow. The red target 
near the center blinks on and off.

MASSASSI INTERCOM VOICE
(over speaker)
Death Star will be in range in five 
minutes.

EXT. SURFACE OF THE DEATH STAR

The three Y-wing fighters race toward camera and zoom overhead 
through a hail of laserfire.

INT. GOLD LEADER'S Y-WING - COCKPIT

Gold Leader pulls his computer targeting device down in front 
of his eye. Laserbolts continue to batter the Rebel craft.

GOLD LEADER
Switching to targeting computer.

INT. GOLD TWO'S Y-WING - COCKPIT

Gold Two, a younger pilot about Luke's age, pulls down his 
targeting eye viewer and adjusts it. His ship shudders under 
intense laser barrage.

GOLD TWO
Computer's locked. Getting a signal.

As the fighters begin to approach the target area, suddenly 
all the laserfire stops. An eerie clam clings over the trench 
as the surface whips past in a blur.

GOLD TWO
The guns... they've stopped!

EXT. GOLD FIVE'S COCKPIT

Gold Five looks behind him.

GOLD FIVE
Stabilize your read deflectors. Watch 
for enemy fighters.

INT. GOLD LEADER'S Y-WING - COCKPIT

GOLD LEADER
They've coming in! Three marks at 
two ten.

EXT. SPACE AROUND THE DEATH STAR

Three Imperial TIE ships, Darth Vader in the center flanked 
by two wingmen, dive in precise formation almost vertically 
toward the Death Star surface.

INT. DARTH VADER'S COCKPIT

Darth Vader calmly adjusts his control stick as the stars 
zoom by.

VADER
I'll take them myself! Cover me!

WINGMAN'S VOICE
(over speaker)
Yes, sir.

EXT. SPACE AROUND THE DEATH STAR

Three TIE fighters zoom across the surface of the Death Star.

INT. DARTH VADER'S COCKPIT

Vader lines up Gold Two in his targeting computer. Vader's 
hands grip the control stick as he presses the button.

INT. GOLD LEADER'S Y-WING - COCKPIT

The cockpit explodes around Gold Two. His head falls forward.

EXT. SPACE AROUND THE DEATH STAR

As Gold Two's ship explodes, debris is flung out into space.

INT. GOLD LEADER'S Y-WING - COCKPIT

Gold Leader looks over his shoulder at the scene.

EXT. DEATH STAR TRENCH

The three TIE fighters race along in the trench in a tight 
formation.

INT. GOLD LEADER'S Y-WING - COCKPIT

Gold Leader panics.

GOLD LEADER
(into mike)
I can't maneuver!

INT. GOLD FIVE'S Y-WING - COCKPIT

Gold Five, the old veteran, trys to calm Gold Leader.

GOLD FIVE
Stay on target.

INT. GOLD LEADER'S Y-WING - COCKPIT

The Death Star races by outside the cockpit window as he 
adjusts his targeting device.

GOLD LEADER
We're too close.

INT. GOLD FIVE'S Y-WING - COCKPIT

The older pilot remains calm.

GOLD FIVE
Stay on target!

INT. GOLD LEADER'S Y-WING - COCKPIT

Now he's really panicked.

GOLD LEADER
Loosen up!

INT. DARTH VADER'S COCKPIT

Vader calmly adjusts his targeting computer and pushes the 
fire button.

INT. GOLD LEADER'S Y-WING - COCKPIT

Gold Leader's ship is hit by Vader's laser.

EXT. SURFACE OF THE DEATH STAR

Gold Leader explodes in a ball of flames, throwing debris in 
all directions.

INT. GOLD FIVE'S Y-WING - COCKPIT

Gold Five moves in on the exhaust port.

GOLD FIVE
Gold Five to Red Leader...

INT. LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER - COCKPIT

Luke looks over his shoulder at the action outside of his 
cockpit.

GOLD FIVE
(over headset)
Lost Tiree, lost Dutch.

INT. RED LEADER'S COCKPIT

RED LEADER
I copy, Gold Five.

INT. GOLD FIVE'S Y-WING - COCKPIT

GOLD FIVE
They came from behind...

EXT. SURFACE OF THE DEATH STAR

One of the engines explodes on Gold Five's Y-wing fighter, 
blazing out of control. He dives past the horizon toward the 
Death Star's surface, passing a TIE fighter during his 
descent. Gold Five, a veteran of countless campaigns, spins 
toward his death.

INT. LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER - COCKPIT

Luke looks nervously about him at the explosive battle.

INT. DEATH STAR - CONTROL ROOM

Grant Moff Tarkin and a Chief Officer stand in the Death 
Star's control room.

OFFICER
We've analyzed their attack, sir, 
and there is a danger. Should I have 
your ship standing by?

TARKIN
Evacuate? In out moment of triumph? 
I think you overestimate their 
chances!

Tarkin turns to the computer readout screen. Flames move 
around the green disk at the center of the screen, as numbers 
read across the bottom.

VOICE
(over speaker)
Rebel base, three minutes and closing.

INT. READ LEADER'S COCKPIT

Red Leader looks over at his wingmen.

RED LEADER
Red Group, this is Red Leader.

INT. MASSASSI OUTPOST - WAR ROOM

Dodonna moves to the intercom as he fiddles with the computer 
keys.

RED LEADER
(over speaker)
Rendezvous at mark six point one.

WEDGE
(over speaker)
This is Red Two. Flying toward you.

BIGGS
(over speaker)
Red Three, standing by.

INT. RED LEADER'S COCKPIT

DODONNA
(over headset)
Red Leader, this is Base One. Keep 
half your group out of range for the 
next run.

INT. LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER - COCKPIT

RED LEADER'S VOICE
(over headset)
Copy, Base One. Luke, take Red Two 
and Three. Hold up here and wait for 
my signal... to start your run.

Luke nods his head.

EXT. SPACE AROUND THE DEATH STAR

The X-wing fighters of Luke, Biggs, and Wedge fly in formation 
high above the Death Star's surface.

INT. LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER - COCKPIT

Luke peers out from his cockpit.

EXT. SURFACE OF THE DEATH STAR

Two X-wings move across the surface of the Death Star. Red 
Leader's X-wing drops down to the surface leading to the 
exhaust port.

INT. RED LEADER'S COCKPIT

Red Leader looks around to watch for the TIE fighters. He 
begins to perspire.

RED LEADER
This is it!

EXT. SPACE

Red Leader roams down the trench of the Death Star as lasers 
streak across the black heavens.

EXT. DEATH STAR SURFACE - GUN EMPLACEMENTS

A huge remote-control laser cannon fires at the approaching 
Rebel fighters.

EXT. DEATH STAR TRENCH

The Rebel fighters evade the Imperial laser blasts.

INT. RED TEN'S COCKPIT

Red Ten looks around for the Imperial fighters.

RED TEN
We should be able to see it by now.

EXT. DEATH STAR TRENCH

From the cockpits of the Rebel pilots, the surface of the 
Death Star streaks by, with Imperial laserfire shooting toward 
them.

INT. RED LEADER'S COCKPIT

RED LEADER
Keep your eyes open for those 
fighters!

INT. RED TEN'S COCKPIT

RED TEN
There's too much interference!

EXT. SPACE - DEATH STAR TRENCH

Three X-wing fighters move in formation down the Death Star 
trench.

RED TEN'S VOICE
Red Five, can you see them from where 
you are?

INT. LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER - COCKPIT

Luke looks down at the Death Star surface below.

LUKE
No sign of any... wait!

INT. RED TEN'S COCKPIT

Red Ten looks up and sees the Imperial fighters.

LUKE
(over headset)
Coming in point three five.

RED TEN
I see them.

EXT. SURFACE OF THE DEATH STAR

Three TIE fighters, Vader flanked by two wingmen, dive in a 
tight formation. The sun reflects off their dominate solar 
fins as they loop toward the Death Star's surface.

INT. RED LEADER'S COCKPIT

Red Leader pulls his targeting device in front of his eyes 
and makes several adjustments.

RED LEADER
I'm in range.

EXT. SURFACE OF THE DEATH STAR

Red Leader's X-wing moves up the Death Star trench.

INT. RED LEADER'S COCKPIT

RED LEADER
Target's coming up!

Red Leader looks at his computer target readout screen. He 
then looks into his targeting device.

RED LEADER
Just hold them off for a few seconds.

INT. DARTH VADER'S COCKPIT

Vader adjusts his control lever and dives on the X-wing 
fighters.

VADER
Close up formation.

EXT. DEATH STAR TRENCH

The three TIE fighters move in formation across the Death 
Star surface.

INT. RED LEADER'S COCKPIT

Red Leader lines up his target on the targeting device cross 
hairs.

EXT. SURFACE OF THE DEATH STAR

Vader and his wingmen zoom down the trench.

INT. DARTH VADER'S COCKPIT

Vader rapidly approaches the two X-wings of Red Ten and Red 
Twelve. Vader's laser cannon flashes below the view of the 
front porthole. the X-wings show in the center of Vader's 
computer screen.

EXT. SPACE

Red Twelve's X-wing fighter is hit by Vader's laserfire, and 
it explodes into flames against the trench.

INT. RED TEN'S COCKPIT

Red Ten works at his controls furiously, trying to avoid 
Vader's fighter behind him.

RED TEN: You'd better let her loose.

INT. RED LEADER'S COCKPIT

Red Leader is concentrating on his targeting device.

RED LEADER
Almost there!

INT. RED TEN'S COCKPIT.

Red Ten panics.

RED TEN
I can't hold them!

EXT. SURFACE OF THE DEATH STAR

Vader and his wingmen whip through the trench in pursuit of 
the Rebel fighters.

INT. DARTH VADER'S COCKPIT

Vader cooly pushes the fire button on his control stick.

INT. RED TEN'S COCKPIT

Darth Vader's well-aimed laserfire proves to be unavoidable, 
and strikes Red Ten's ship. Red Ten screams in anguish and 
pain.

EXT. SPACE AROUND THE DEATH STAR

Red Ten's ship explodes and bursts into flames.

INT. RED LEADER'S COCKPIT

Grimly, Red Leader takes careful aim and watches his computer 
targeting device, which shows the target lined up in the 
cross hairs, and fires.

INT. RED LEADER'S COCKPIT

RED LEADER
It's away!

INT. DEATH STAR

An armed Imperial stormtrooper is knocked to the floor from 
the attack explosion. Other troopers scurrying about the 
corridors are knocked against the wall and lose their balance.

INT. MASSASSI OUTPOST - WAR ROOM

Leia and the others stare at the computer screen.

RED NINE'S VOICE
(over speaker)
It's a hit!

RED LEADER
(over speaker)
Negative.

INT. RED LEADER'S COCKPIT

Red Leader looks back at the receding Death Star. Tiny 
explosions are visible in the distance.

RED LEADER
Negative! It didn't go in. It just 
impacted on the surface.

EXT. SPACE AROUND THE DEATH STAR - TIE FIGHTER

Darth Vader peels off in pursuit as Red Leader's X-wing passes 
the Death Star horizon.

INT. DARTH VADER'S COCKPIT

Vader swings his ship around for the next kill.

INT. RED LEADER'S COCKPIT

LUKE
(over headset)
Red Leader, we're right above you. 
Turn to point...

INT. LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER - COCKPIT

Luke tries to spot Red Leader. He looks down at the Death 
Star surface.

LUKE
...oh-five; we'll cover for you.

RED LEADER
(over headset)
Stay there...

INT. RED LEADER'S COCKPIT

A wary Red Leader looks about nervously.

RED LEADER
...I just lost my starboard engine.

INT. LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER - COCKPIT

Luke looks excitedly toward Red Leader's X-wing.

RED LEADER
(over headset)
Get set to make your attack run.

INT. DARTH VADER'S COCKPIT

Vader's gloved hands make contact with the control sticks, 
and he presses their firing buttons.

INT. RED LEADER'S COCKPIT

Red Leader fights to gain control of his ship.

EXT. SPACE AROUND THE DEATH STAR

Laserbolts are flung from Vader's TIE fighter, connecting 
with Red Leader's Rebel X-wing fighter. Red Leader buys it, 
creating a tremendous explosion far below. He screams and is 
destroyed.

INT. LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER - COCKPIT

Luke looks out the window of his X-wing at the explosion far 
below. For the first time, he feels the helplessness of his 
situation.

INT. DEATH STAR

Grand Moff Tarkin casts a sinister eye at the computer screen.

DEATH STAR INTERCOM VOICE
Rebel base, one minute and closing.

INT. MASSASSI OUTPOST - WAR ROOM

Dodonna and Princess Leia, with Threepio beside them, listen 
intently to the talk between the pilots. The room is grim 
after Red Leader's death. Princess Leia nervously paces the 
room.

LUKE
(over speaker)
Biggs, Wedge, let's close it up. 
We're going in. We're going in full 
throttle.

INT. WEDGE'S COCKPIT

The horizon twists as Wedge begins to pull out.

WEDGE
Right with you, boss.

EXT. SPACE AROUND THE DEATH STAR

The two X-wings peel off against a background of stars and 
dive toward the Death Star.

INT. BIGGS' COCKPIT

BIGGS
Luke, at that speed will you be able 
to pull out in time?

INT. LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER - COCKPIT

LUKE
It'll be just like Beggar's Canyon 
back home.

EXT. SPACE AROUND THE DEATH STAR

The three X-wings move in, unleashing a barrage of laserfire.  
Laserbolts are returned from the Death Star.

INT. BIGGS' COCKPIT

Luke's lifelong friend struggles with his controls.

BIGGS
We'll stay back far enough to cover 
you.

INT. LUKE'S COCKPIT

Flak and laserbolts flash outside Luke's cockpit window.

WEDGE
(over headset)
My scope shows the tower, but I can't 
see the exhaust port! Are you sure 
the computer can hit it?

EXT. DEATH STAR - GUN EMPLACEMENTS

The Death Star laser cannon slowly rotates as it shoots 
laserbolts.

INT. LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER - COCKPIT

Luke looks around for the Imperial TIE fighters. He thinks 
for a moment and then moves his targeting device into 
position.

LUKE
Watch yourself! Increase speed full 
throttle!

INT. WEDGE'S COCKPIT

Wedge looks excitedly about for any sign of the TIE fighters.

WEDGE
What about the tower?

INT. LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER - COCKPIT

LUKE
You worry about those fighters! I'll 
worry about the tower!

EXT. DEATH STAR SURFACE

Luke's X-wing streaks through the trench, firing lasers.

INT. LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER - COCKPIT

Luke breaks into a nervous sweat as the laserfire is returned, 
knicking one of his wings close to the engine.

LUKE
(to Artoo)
Artoo... that, that stabilizer's 
broken loose again! See if you can't 
lock it down!

EXT. LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER

Artoo works to repair the damages. The canyon wall rushes by 
in the background, making his delicate task seem even more 
precarious.

EXT. DEATH STAR

Two laser cannons are firing on the Rebel fighters.

INT. WEDGE'S COCKPIT

Wedge looks up and sees the TIE ships.

INT. LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER - COCKPIT

Luke's targeting device marks off the distance to the target.

EXT. SPACE AROUND THE DEATH STAR

Vader and his wingmen zoom closer.

INT. DARTH VADER'S COCKPIT

Vader adjusts his controls and fires laserbolts at two X-
wings flying down the trench. He scores a direct hit on Wedge.

INT. MASSASSI OUTPOST - WAR ROOM

Leia and the others are grouped around the computer board.

WEDGE
(over speaker)
I'm hit! I can't stay with you.

LUKE
(over speaker)
Get clear, Wedge.

INT. LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER - COCKPIT

LUKE
You can't do any more good back there!

INT. WEDGE'S COCKPIT

WEDGE
Sorry!

EXT. SPACE AROUND THE DEATH STAR

Wedge pulls his crippled X-wing back away from the battle.

INT. DARTH VADER'S COCKPIT

Vader watches the escape but issues a command to his wingmen.

VADER
Let him go! Stay on the leader!

EXT. SPACE AROUND THE DEATH STAR

Luke's X-wing speeds down the trench; the three TIE fighters, 
still in perfect unbroken formation, tail close behind.

INT. BIGGS' COCKPIT

Biggs looks around at the TIE fighters. He is worried.

BIGGS
Hurry, Luke, they're coming in much 
faster this time. I can't hold them!

EXT. SPACE AROUND THE DEATH STAR

The three TIE fighters move ever closer, closing in on Luke 
and Biggs.

INT. LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER - COCKPIT

Luke looks back anxiously at little Artoo.

LUKE
Artoo, try and increase the power!

EXT. LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER

Ignoring the bumpy ride, flak, and lasers, a beeping Artoo-
Detoo struggles to increase the power, his dome turning from 
side to side.

EXT. SPACE AROUND THE DEATH STAR

Stealthily, the TIE formation creeps closer.

INT. DARTH VADER'S COCKPIT

Vader adjusts his control stick.

INT. BIGGS' COCKPIT

Biggs looks around at the TIE fighters.

INT. LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER

Luke looks into his targeting device. He moves it away for a 
moment and ponders its use. He looks back into the computer 
targeter.

BIGGS
(over headset)
Hurry up, Luke!

EXT. SPACE AROUND THE DEATH STAR

Vader and his wingmen race through the Death Star trench.  
Biggs moves in to cover for Luke, but Vader gains on him.

INT. BIGGS' COCKPIT

Biggs sees the TIE fighter aiming at him.

BIGGS
Wait!

INT. DARTH VADER'S COCKPIT

Vader squeezes the fire button on his controls.

INT. BIGGS' COCKPIT

Biggs' cockpit explodes around him, lighting him in red.

EXT. SURFACE OF THE DEATH STAR

Biggs' ship bursts into a million flaming bits and scatters 
across the surface.

INT. MASSASSI OUTPOST - WAR ROOM

Leia and the others stare at the computer board.

INT. LUKE'S X-WING COCKPIT

Luke is stunned by Biggs' death. His eyes are watering, but 
his anger is also growing.

INT. DEATH STAR - CONTROL ROOM

Grand Moff Tarkin watches the projected target screen with 
satisfaction.

DEATH STAR INTERCOM VOICE
Rebel base, thirty seconds and 
closing.

INT. DARTH VADER'S COCKPIT

Vader takes aim on Luke and talks to the wingmen.

VADER
I'm on the leader.

EXT. SURFACE OF THE DEATH STAR - LUKE'S SHIP

Luke's ship streaks through the trench of the Death Star.

INT. MASSASSI OUTPOST - WAR ROOM

Princess Leia returns her general's worried and doubtful 
glances with solid, grim determination. Threepio seems 
nervous.

THREEPIO
Hang on, Artoo!

INT. LUKE'S X-WING - COCKPIT

Luke concentrates on his targeting device.

EXT. SURFACE OF THE DEATH STAR

Three TIE fighters charge away down the trench toward Luke.

INT. DARTH VADER'S COCKPIT

Vader's finger's curls around the control stick.

INT. LUKE'S X-WING - COCKPIT

Luke adjusts the lens of his targeting device.

EXT. SURFACE OF THE DEATH STAR

Luke's ship charges down the trench.

INT. LUKE'S X-WING - COCKPIT

Luke lines up the yellow cross-hair lines of the targeting 
device's screen. He looks into the targeting device, then 
starts at a voice he hears.

BEN'S VOICE
Use the Force, Luke.

EXT. SURFACE OF THE DEATH STAR

The Death Star trench zooms by.

INT. LUKE'S X-WING - COCKPIT

Luke looks up, then starts to look back into the targeting 
device. He has second thoughts.

BEN'S VOICE
Let go, Luke.

A grim determination sweeps across Luke's face as he closes 
his eyes and starts to mumble Ben's training to himself.

EXT. SURFACE OF THE DEATH STAR

Luke's fighter streaks through the trench.

INT. DARTH VADER'S COCKPIT

VADER
The Force is strong with this one!

EXT. SURFACE OF THE DEATH STAR

Vader follows Luke's X-wing down the trench.

INT. LUKE'S X-WING - COCKPIT

Luke looks to the targeting device, then away as he hears 
Ben's voice.

BEN'S VOICE
Luke, trust me.

Luke's hand reaches for the control panel and presses the 
button. The targeting device moves away.

INT. MASSASSI OUTPOST - WAR ROOM

Leia and the others stand watching the projected screen.

BASE VOICE
(over speaker)
His computer's off. Luke, you switched 
off your targeting computer. What's 
wrong?

LUKE
(over speaker)
Nothing. I'm all right.

EXT. SURFACE OF THE DEATH STAR

Luke's ship streaks ever close to the exhaust port.

INT. LUKE'S X-WING - COCKPIT

Luke looks at the Death Star surface streaking by.

EXT. LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER

Artoo-Detoo turns his head from side to side, beeping in 
anticipation.

EXT. SURFACE OF THE DEATH STAR

The three TIE fighters, manned by Vader and his two wingmen, 
follow Luke's X-wing down the trench.

INT. DARTH VADER'S COCKPIT

Vader maneuvers his controls as he looks at his doomed target.  
He presses the fire buttons on his control sticks. Laserfire 
shoots toward Luke's X-wing fighter.

EXT. LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER

A large burst of Vader's laserfire engulfs Artoo. The arms 
go limp on the smoking little droid as he makes a high-pitched 
sound.

INT. LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER - COCKPIT

Luke looks frantically back over his shoulder at Artoo.

EXT. LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER

Smoke billows out around little Artoo and sparks begin to 
fly.

LUKE
I've lost Artoo!

Artoo's beeping sounds die out.

INT. MASSASSI OUTPOST - WAR ROOM

Leia and the others stare intently at the projected screen, 
while Threepio watches the Princess. Lights representing the 
Death Star and targets glow brightly.

MASSASSI INTERCOM VOICE
The Death Star has cleared the planet. 
The Death Star has cleared the planet.

INT. DEATH STAR - CONTROL ROOM

Tarkin glares at the projected target screen.

DEATH STAR INTERCOM VOICE
Rebel base, in range.

TARKIN
You may fire when ready.

DEATH STAR INTERCOM VOICE
Commence primary ignition.

An officer reaches up and pushes buttons on the control panel, 
as green lighted buttons turn to red.

EXT. SURFACE OF THE DEATH STAR

The three TIE fighters zoom down the Death Star trench in 
pursuit of Luke, never breaking formation.

INT. LUKE'S COCKPIT

Luke looks anxiously at the exhaust port.

INT. DARTH VADER'S COCKPIT

Vader adjusts his control sticks, checking his projected 
targeting screen.

EXT. SURFACE OF THE DEATH STAR

Luke's ship barrels down the trench.

INT. DARTH VADER'S COCKPIT

Vader's targeting computer swings around into position. Vader 
takes careful aim on Luke's X-wing fighter.

VADER
I have you now.

He pushes the fire buttons.

EXT. SURFACE OF THE DEATH STAR

The three TIE fighters move in on Luke. As Vader's center 
fighter unleashes a volley of laserfire, one of the TIE ships 
at his side is hit and explodes into flame. The two remaining 
ships continue to move in.

INT. LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER - COCKPIT

Luke looks about, wondering whose laserfire destroyed Vader's 
wingman.

INT. DARTH VADER'S COCKPIT

Vader is taken by surprise, and looks out from his cockpit.

VADER
What?

INT. DARTH VADER'S WINGMAN - COCKPIT

Vader's wingman searches around him trying to locate the 
unknown attacker.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Han and Chewbacca grin from ear to ear.

HAN
(yelling)
Yahoo!

EXT. SPACE AROUND THE DEATH STAR

The Millennium Falcon heads right at the two TIE fighters.  
It's a collision course.

INT. WINGMAN'S COCKPIT

The wingman spots the pirateship coming at him and warns the 
Dark Lord.

WINGMAN
Look out!

EXT. DEATH STAR TRENCH

Vader's wingman panics at the sight of the oncoming pirate 
starship and veers radically to one side, colliding with 
Vader's TIE fighter in the process. Vader's wingman crashes 
into the side wall of the trench and explodes. Vader's damaged 
ship spins out of the trench with a damaged wing.

EXT. SPACE AROUND THE DEATH STAR

Vader's ship spins out of control with a bent solar fin, 
heading for deep space.

INT. DARTH VADER'S COCKPIT

Vader turns round and round in circles as his ship spins 
into space.

EXT. SURFACE OF THE DEATH STAR

Solo's ship moves in toward the Death Star trench.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Solo, smiling, speaks to Luke over his headset mike.

HAN
(into mike)
You're all clear, kid.

INT. MASSASSI OUTPOST - WAR ROOM

Leia and the others listen to Solo's transmission.

HAN
(over speaker)
Now let's blow this thing and go 
home!

INT. LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER - COCKPIT

Luke looks up and smiles. He concentrates on the exhaust 
port, then fires his laser torpedoes.

EXT. SURFACE OF THE DEATH STAR

Luke's torpedoes shoot toward the port and seems to simply 
disappear into the surface and not explode. But the shots do 
find their mark and have gone into the exhaust port and are 
heading for the main reactor.

INT. LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER - COCKPIT

Luke throws his head back in relief.

INT. DEATH STAR

An Imperial soldier runs to the control panel board and pulls 
the attack lever as the board behind him lights up.

INTERCOM VOICE
Stand by to fire at Rebel base.

EXT. SPACE AROUND THE DEATH STAR

Two X-wings, a Y-wing, and the pirateship race toward Yavin 
in the distance.

INT. DEATH STAR

Several Imperial soldiers, flanking a pensive Grand Moff 
Tarkin, busily push control levers and buttons.

INTERCOM VOICE
Standing by.

The rumble of a distant explosion begins.

EXT. SPACE AROUND THE DEATH STAR

The Rebel ships race out of sight, leaving the moon-like 
Death Star alone against a blanket of stars. Several small 
flashes appear on the surface. The Death Star bursts into a 
supernova, creating a spectacular heavenly display.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

HAN
Great shot, kid. That was one in a 
million.

INT. LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER - COCKPIT

Luke is at ease, and his eyes are closed.

BEN'S VOICE
Remember, the Force will be with 
you... always.

The ship rocks back and forth.

EXT. DARTH VADER'S TIE FIGHTER

Vader's ship spins off into space.

EXT. SPACE

The Rebel ships race toward the fourth moon of Yavin.

INT. MASSASSI OUTPOST - MAIN HANGAR

Luke climbs out of his starship fighter and is cheered by a 
throng of ground crew and pilots. Luke climbs down the ladder 
as they all welcome him with laughter, cheers, and shouting. 
Princess Leia rushes toward him.

LEIA
Luke! Luke! Luke!

She throws her arms around Luke and hugs him as they dance 
around in a circle. Solo runs in toward Luke and they embrace 
one another, slapping each other on the back.

HAN
(laughing)
Hey! Hey!

LUKE
(laughing)
I knew you'd come back! I just knew 
it!

HAN
Well, I wasn't gonna let you get all 
the credit and take all the reward.

Luke and Han look at one another, as Solo playfully shoves 
at Luke's face. Leia moves in between them.

LEIA
(laughing)
Hey, I knew there was more to you 
than money.

Luke looks toward the ship.

LUKE
Oh, no!

The fried little Artoo-Detoo is lifted off the back of the 
fighter and carried off under the worried eyes of Threepio.

THREEPIO
Oh, my! Artoo! Can you hear me? Say 
something!
(to mechanic)
You can repair him, can't you?

TECHNICIAN
We'll get to work on him right away.

THREEPIO
You must repair him! Sir, if any of 
my circuits or gears will help, I'll 
gladly donate them.

LUKE
He'll be all right.

INT. MASSASSI OUTPOST - MAIN THRONE ROOM

Luke, Han, and Chewbacca enter the huge ruins of the main 
temple. Hundreds of troops are lined up in neat rows. Banners 
are flying and at the far end stands a vision in white, the 
beautiful young Senator Leia. Luke and the others solemnly 
march up the long aisle and kneel before Senator Leia. From 
one side of the temple marches a shined-up and fully repaired 
Artoo-Detoo. He waddles up to the group and stands next to 
an equally pristine Threepio, who is rather awestruck by the 
whole event. Chewbacca is confused. Dodonna and several other 
dignitaries sit on the left of the Princess Leia. Leia is 
dressed in a long white dress and is staggeringly beautiful.  
She rises and places a gold medallion around Han's neck. He 
winks at her. She then repeats the ceremony with Luke, who 
is moved by the event. They turn and face the assembled 
troops, who all bow before them. Chewbacca growls and Artoo 
beeps with happiness.

A long time ago, in a galaxy far, far, away...

It is a dark time for the Rebellion. Although the Death Star has
been destroyed, Imperial troops have driven the Rebel forces from
their hidden base and pursued them across the galaxy.
Evading the dreaded Imperial Starfleet, a group of freedom fighters
led by Luke Skywalker has established a new secret base on the remote
ice world of Hoth.
The evil lord Darth Vader, obsessed with finding young Skywalker,
has dispatched thousands of remote probes into the far reaches of
space...

EXTERIOR: GALAXY -- PLANET HOTH

A Star Destroyer moves through space, releasing Imperial probe
robots from its underside. 
One of these probes zooms toward the planet Hoth and lands
on its ice-covered surface. An explosion marks the point of
impact. 

EXTERIOR: HOTH -- METEORITE CRATER -- SNOW PLAIN -- DAY

A weird mechanical sound rises above the whining of the
wind. A strange probe robot, with several extended sensors,
emerges from the smoke-shrouded crater. The ominous mechanical
probe floats across the snow plain and disappears into the
distance.

EXTERIOR: PLAIN OF HOTH -- DAY

A small figure gallops across the windswept ice slope. The
bundled rider is mounted on a large gray snow lizard, a
Tauntaun. Curving plumes of snow rise from beneath the
speeding paws of the two-legged beast.
The rider gallops up a slope and reins his lizard to a
stop. Pulling off his protective goggles, Luke Skywalker
notices something in the sky. He takes a pair of
electrobinoculars from his utility belt and through them sees
smoke rising from where the probe robot has crashed.
The wind whips at Luke's fur-lined cap and he activates a
comlink transmitter. His Tauntaun shifts and moans nervously
beneath him.

LUKE: (into comlink) Echo Three to Echo Seven. Han, old buddy, do you
read me?
After a little static a familiar voice is heard.

HAN: (over comlink) Loud and clear, kid. What's up?

LUKE: (into comlink) Well, I finished my circle. I don't pick up any
life readings.

HAN: (over comlink) There isn't enough life on this ice cube to fill a
space cruiser. The sensors are placed. I'm going back.

LUKE: (into comlink) Right. I'll see you shortly. There's a meteorite
that hit the ground near here. I want to check it out. It won't take
long.

Luke clicks off his transmitter and reins back on his
nervous lizard. He pats the beast on the head to calm it.

LUKE: Hey, steady girl. What's the matter? You smell something?

Luke takes a small device from his belt and starts to
adjust it when suddenly a large shadow falls over him from
behind. He hears a monstrous howl and turns to see an eleven-
foot-tall shape towering over him. It is a Wampa Ice Creature,
lunging at him ferociously.

LUKE: Aaargh!

Luke grabs for his pistol, but is hit flat in the face by a
huge white claw. He falls unconscious into the snow and in a
moment the terrified screams of the Tauntaun are cut short by
the horrible snap of a neck being broken.
The Wampa Ice Creature grabs Luke by one ankle and drags
him away across the frozen plain.

EXTERIOR: HOTH -- REBEL BASE ENTRANCE -- DAY

A stalwart figure rides his Tauntaun up to the entrance
of an enormous ice cave.

INTERIOR: HOTH -- REBEL BASE -- MAIN HANGAR DECK

Rebel troopers rush about unloading supplies and otherwise
securing their new base. The rider, Han Solo, swings off his
lizard and pulls off his goggles.
He walks into the main hangar deck toward the Millennium
Falcon, which is parked among several fighters. Mechanics, R2
units, and various other droids hurry about. Han stops at the
Millennium Falcon where his Wookiee copilot, Chewbacca, is
welding on a central lifter. Chewie stops his work and lifts
his face shield, growling an irritated greeting to his boss.

HAN: Chewie!

The Wookiee grumbles a reply.

HAN: All right, don't lose your temper. I'll come right back and give
you a hand.

Chewbacca puts his mask back on and returns to his welding
as Han leaves.

INTERIOR: HOTH -- REBEL BASE -- COMMAND CENTER

A makeshift command center has been set up in a blasted area
of thick ice. The low-ceilinged room is a beehive of activity.
Controllers, troops, and droids move about setting up
electronic equipment and monitoring radar signals.
General Rieekan straightens up from a console at Han's
approach.

RIEEKAN: Solo?

HAN: No sign of life out there, General. The sensors are in place.
You'll know if anything comes around.

RIEEKAN: Commander Skywalker reported in yet?

HAN: No. He's checking out a meteorite that hit near him.

RIEEKAN: (indicates radar screen) With all the meteor activity in this
system, it's going to be difficult to spot approaching ships.

Taking a deep breath, Han blurts out what is on his mind.

HAN: General, I've got to leave. I can't stay anymore.

Princess Leia, standing at a console nearby, is dressed in a
short white combat jacket and pants. Her hair is brained and
tied across her head in a Nordic fashion. She overhears their
conversation and seems somewhat distressed.

RIEEKAN: I'm sorry to hear that.

HAN: Well, there's a price on my head. If I don't pay off Jabba the
Hut, I'm a dead man.

RIEEKAN: A death mark's not an easy thing to live with. You're a good
fighter, Solo. I hate to lose you.

HAN: Thank you, General.

He turns to Leia as Rieekan moves away.

HAN: (with feeling) Well, Your Highness, I guess this is it.

LEIA: That's right.

Leia is angry. Han sees she has no warmth to offer him. He
shakes his head and adopts a sarcastic tone.

HAN: (cooly) Well, don't get all mushy on me. So long, Princess.

Han walks away into the quiet corridor adjoining the
command center. Leia stews a moment, then hurries after him.

INTERIOR: HOTH -- REBEL BASE -- ICE CORRIDOR

LEIA: Han!

Han stops in the corridor and turns to face Leia.

HAN: Yes, Your Highnessness?

LEIA: I thought you decided to stay.

HAN: Well, the bounty hunter we ran into on Ord Mantell changed my
mind. 

LEIA: Han, we need you!

HAN: We?

LEIA: Yes.

HAN: Oh, what about you need?

LEIA: (mystified) I need? I don't know what you're talking about.

HAN: (shakes his head, fed up) You probably don't.

LEIA: And what precisely am I supposed to know?

HAN: Come on! You want me to stay because of the way you feel about
me.

LEIA: Yes. You're a great help to us. You're a natural leader...

HAN: No! That's not it. Come on. Aahhh -- uh huh! Come on.

Leia stares at him, understanding, then laughs.

LEIA: You're imagining things.

HAN: Am I? Then why are you following me? Afraid I was going to leave
without giving you a goodbye kiss?

LEIA: I'd just as soon kiss a Wookiee.

HAN: I can arrange that. You could use a good kiss!

Angrily, Han strides down the corridor as Leia stares after
him.

INTERIOR: HOTH -- REBEL BASE -- ANOTHER ICE CORRIDOR

A familiar stream of beeps and whistles herald the approach
of Artoo-Detoo and See-Threepio, who appear around a corner
and move along an ice wall toward the main hangar.

THREEPIO: Don't try to blame me. I didn't ask you to turn on the
thermal heater. I merely commented that it was freezing in the
princess's chamber. But it's supposed to be freezing. How are we going
to dry out all her clothes? I really don't know.

Artoo beeps a stream of protesting whistles.

THREEPIO: Oh, switch off.

INTERIOR: HOTH -- REBEL BASE -- MAIN HANGAR DECK

The two robots stop at Han Solo's space freighter. Han and
Chewie are struggling with their central lifters.

HAN: (to Chewie) Why do you take this apart now? I'm trying to get us
out of here and you pull both of these.

Chewie grumbles in irritation.

THREEPIO: Excuse me, sir.

HAN: (to Chewie) Put them back together right now.

THREEPIO: Might I have a word with you, please?

HAN: What do you want?

THREEPIO: Well, it's Princess Leia, sir. She's been trying to get you
on the communicator.

HAN: I turned it off. I don't want to talk to her.

THREEPIO: Oh. Well, Princess Leia is wondering about Master Luke. He
hasn't come back yet. She doesn't know where he is.

HAN: I don't know where he is.

THREEPIO: Nobody knows where he is.

HAN: What do you mean, "nobody knows"?

Han glances at the fading light at the entrance of the ice
cave as night slowly begins to fall on the planet.

THREEPIO: Well, uh, you see...

Han jumps down off the lift, as Threepio follows him.

HAN: Deck Officer. Deck Officer!

THREEPIO: Excuse me, sir. Might I inqu-...

Han abruptly puts his hand over Threepio's mouth as the
deck officer approaches.

DECK OFFICER: Yes, sir?

HAN: Do you know where Commander Skywalker is?

DECK OFFICER: I haven't seen him. It's possible he came in through the
south entrance.

HAN: It's possible? Why don't you go find out? It's getting dark out
there.

DECK OFFICER: Yes, sir.

The deck officer leaves hurriedly, as Han takes his hand
off Threepio's mouth.

THREEPIO: Excuse me, sir. Might I inquire what's going on?

HAN: Why not?

THREEPIO: Impossible man. Come along, Artoo, lets find Princess Leia.
Between ourselves, I think Master Luke is in considerable danger.

INTERIOR: HOTH -- REBEL BASE -- MAIN ICE TUNNEL

The deck officer and his assistant hurry toward Han as he
enters the tunnel.

DECK OFFICER: Sir, Commander Skywalker hasn't come in through the
south entrance. He might have forgotten to check in.

HAN: Not likely. Are the speeders ready?

DECK OFFICER: Not yet. We're having some trouble adapting them to the
cold.

HAN: Then we'll have to go out on Tauntauns.

DECK OFFICER: Sir, the temperature's dropping too rapidly.

HAN: That's right. And my friends out in it.

ASSISTANT OFFICER: I'll cover sector twelve. Have com-control set
screen alpha.

Han pushes through the troops and mounts a Tauntaun.

DECK OFFICER: Your Tauntaun'll freeze before you reach the first
marker.

HAN: Then I'll see you in hell!

Han maneuvers his mount out of the cave and races into the
dark bitter night.

EXTERIOR: HOTH -- ICE GORGE -- DUSK

The jagged face of a huge ice wall sits gloomily in the dim
twilight of a Hoth day. Luke hangs upside down, ankles frozen
into icy stalactites, his extended arms within a foot of the
snow floor. One side of his face is covered in a dried mask of
frozen blood. He opens his eyes as a chilling moan of the
hideous ice creature echoes off the gorge walls. Luke pulls
himself up, grabs hold of his ankles, and futilely tries to
unfasten the throngs.
Exhausted, he drops back into his hanging position. As he
hangs there, he spies his lightsaber lying near a pile of his
discarded gear, about three feet out of reach.
He focuses on the saber and, as his hand strains toward the
weapon, he squeezes his eyes tight in concentration.
Just as the ice creature looms over Luke, the lightsaber
jumps into Luke's hand.
The young warrior instantly ignites his sword, swinging up,
and cuts himself loose from the ice. He flops to the snow in a
heap. The startled creature moves back, his giant yellow eyes
blinking. Luke scrambles to his feet. He swings his lightsaber
and the beast screams in pain.

EXTERIOR: HOTH -- ENTRANCE TO ICE GORGE -- DUSK

Luke staggers out of the gorge into the dark and snowy
twilight. Weak and exhausted, he stumbles down a snow bank.

EXTERIOR: HOTH -- SNOW PLAIN -- DUSK

A small, lone figure riding a Tauntaun races through the
hostile vastness of snow and cold. As it runs, the Tauntaun's
legs kick up large clouds of snow and ice into the snowy air.

EXTERIOR: HOTH -- OUTSIDE ICE HANGAR -- DUSK

Artoo stands in the falling snow, beeping worriedly.
Threepio moves stiffly over to him.

THREEPIO: You must come along now, Artoo. There's really nothing more
we can do. And my joints are freezing up.

Artoo beeps, long and low.

THREEPIO: Don't say thing like that! Of course we'll see Master Luke
again. He'll be quite all right, you'll see. (to himself) Stupid
little short-circuit. He'll be quite all right.

Threepio turns to go back inside the main hangar as Artoo
mournfully keeps his vigil.

EXTERIOR: HOTH -- SNOW DRIFT -- DUSK

The wind is blowing quite strong now. Luke struggles to
stay upright, but a blast of freezing snow knocks him over. He
struggles to get up, but he can't. The young warrior from
Tatooine drags himself a couple of feet and then collapses.

INTERIOR: REBEL BASE -- MAIN HANGAR DECK -- ENTRANCE -- NIGHT

Princess Leia stands inside the dark entrance to the Rebel
base, waiting for a sign of the two Rebel heroes. She shivers
in the cold wind as, nearby, Chewie sits with his head in his
hands. In the background, Artoo and Threepio move through the
doors. 
A Rebel lieutenant moves to Major Derlin, an officer
keeping watch with the princess.

LIEUTENANT: Sir, all the patrols are in. There's still no contact from
Skywalker or Solo.

THREEPIO: Mistress Leia, Artoo says he's been quite unable to pick up
any signals, although he does admit that his own range is far too
weak to abandon all hope.

Leia nods an acknowledgment, but she is lost in thought.

DERLIN: Your Highness, there's nothing more we can do tonight. The
shield doors must be closed.

He turns to the lieutenant.

DERLIN: Close the doors.

LIEUTENANT: Yes, sir.

The lieutenant walks away. Chewie lets out a long, mournful
howl, somewhat like a coyote. At the same moment, Artoo begins
a complex series of efficient beeps.

THREEPIO: Artoo says the chances of survival are seven hundred
seventy-five...to one.

Leia stands praying to herself as the huge metal doors slam
across the entrance of the ice cave. The loud booms echo
throughout the huge cavern. Chewie lets out another suffering
howl.

THREEPIO: Actually, Artoo has been known to make mistakes...from time
to time. Oh, dear, oh, dear. Don't worry about Master Luke. I'm sure
he'll be all right. He's quite clever, you know...for a human being.

EXTERIOR: HOTH -- SNOW DRIFT -- DUSK

Luke lies face down in the snow, nearly unconscious. Slowly
he looks up and sees Ben Kenobi, barely visible through the
blowing snow. It is hard to tell if Kenobi is real or a
hallucination.

BEN: Luke...Luke.

LUKE: (weakly) Ben?

BEN: You will go to the Dagobah system.

LUKE: Dagobah system?

BEN: There you will learn from Yoda, the Jedi Master who instructed
me.

The image of Ben fades, revealing a lone Tauntaun rider
approaching from the windswept horizon.

LUKE: (groaning faintly) Ben...Ben.

Luke drops into unconsciousness.
Han pulls up and leaps off his mount. He hurries to his
snow-covered friend, cradling him in his arms. Han's Tauntaun
lets out a low, pitiful bellow. But Han's concern is with
Luke, and he shakes him urgently.

HAN: Luke! Luke! Don't do this, Luke. Come on, give me a sign here.

Luke doesn't respond. Han begins frantically rubbing and
slapping Luke's unconscious face. As he starts to lift the
youth, Han hears a rasping sound behind him. He turns, just in
time to see his Tauntaun stagger and then fall over into the
snow.
Han carries Luke to the moaning beast. Then, with a final
groan, the Tauntaun expires.

HAN: Not much time.

He pushes Luke's inert form against the belly of the dead
beast.

LUKE: (moaning) Ben...Ben...

HAN: Hang on, kid.

LUKE: Dagobah system...

Han ignites Luke's saber and cuts the beast from head to
toe. He quickly tosses it's steaming innards into the snow,
then lifts Luke's inert form and stuffs him inside the
carcass.

HAN: (reeling from the odor) Whew...

LUKE: Dagobah...

HAN: This may smell bad, kid...

LUKE: (moaning) Yoda...

HAN: ...but it will keep you warm...til I get the shelter built.
(struggling to get Luke in the carcass) Ooh...I thought they smelled
bad on the outside!

The wind has picked up considerably, making it difficult to
move. Han removes a pack from the dead creature's back, taking
out a shelter container. He begins to set up what can only be
a pitiful protection against a bitter Hoth night.

EXTERIOR: HOTH -- SNOWDRIFT -- DAWN

Four snub-nosed armored snowspeeders race across the white
landscape.

INTERIOR: SNOWSPEEDER COCKPIT

There is only one pilot, Zev, in the enclosed two-man
craft. He concentrates on the scopes which ring his cockpit.
He hears a low beep from one of his monitors.

ZEV: (into transmitter) Echo Base...I've got something! Not much, but
it could be a life form.

EXTERIOR: HOTH -- SNOWDRIFT

The small craft banks and makes a slow arc, then races off
in a new direction.

INTERIOR: SNOWSPEEDER -- COCKPIT

The pilot switches over to a new transmitter.

ZEV: (into transmitter) This is Rouge Two. this is Rouge Two. Captain
Solo, so you copy? Commander Skywalker, do you copy? This is Rouge
Two.

There is a sharp crackle of static, then a faint voice.

HAN: (filtered over Zev's receiver) Good morning. Nice of you guys to
drop by.

ZEV: (switching transmitters) Echo Base...this is Rouge Two. I found
them. Repeat, I found them.

EXTERIOR: HOTH -- SNOWDRIFT -- DAY

The small shelter Han set up is covered with snow on the
windward side. A makeshift antenna rests gingerly on top the
snowdrift. Han spots Zev's snowspeeder approaching in the
distance, and begins waving his arms frantically at the tiny
craft.

INTERIOR: REBEL BASE -- MEDICAL CENTER

Strange robot surgeons adjust a mass of electronic
equipment. A switch is thrown and a sudden blinding flash
obscures Luke in a bacta tank filled with a thick, gelatinous
slime. He begins to thrash about, raving in delirium.

INTERIOR: REBEL BASE -- MEDICAL CENTER -- RECOVERY ROOM

Luke sits up in a recovery-room bed, weak but smiling. His
face shows terrible wounds from the Wampa's attack. Threepio
and Artoo enter the room.

THREEPIO: Master Luke, sir, it's good to see you fully functional
again.

Artoo beeps his good wishes.

THREEPIO: Artoo expresses his relief, also.

Han and Chewie make their entrance. The Wookiee growls a
greeting.

HAN: How are you feeling, kid? You don't look so bad to me. In fact,
you look strong enough to pull the ears off a Gundark.

LUKE: Thanks to you.

HAN: That's two you owe me, junior.

Han turns as Leia enters the room. He looks at her with a
big, devilish grin.

HAN: Well your Worship, looks like you managed to keep me around for a
little while longer.

LEIA: (haughtily) I had nothing to do with it. General Rieekan thinks
it's dangerous for any ships to leave the system until we've activated
the energy shield.

HAN: That's a good story. I think you just can't bear to let a
gorgeous guy like me out of your sight.

LEIA: I don't know where you get you delusions, laser brain.

Chewie is amused; he laughs in his manner. Han, enjoying
himself, regards Chewie good-humoredly.

HAN: Laugh it up, fuzz ball. But you didn't see us alone in the south
passage.

Luke sparks to this; he looks at Leia.

HAN: She expressed her true feelings for me.

Leia is flushed, eyes darting between Luke and Han.

LEIA: My...! Why, you stuck up,...half-witted,...scruffy-looking...
nerf-herder!

HAN: Who's scruffy-looking? (to Luke) I must have hit her pretty close
to the mark to get her all riled up like that, huh, kid?

Leia looks vulnerable for a moment, then the mask falls
again, and she focuses on Luke.

LEIA: Why, I guess you don't know everything about women yet?

With that she leans over and kisses Luke on the lips. Then
she turns on her heel and walks out, leaving everyone in the
room slightly dumbstruck. With some smugness, Luke puts his
hands behind his head and grins.
Suddenly, in the distance, the muffled sound of an alarm is
heard.

ANNOUNCER: (over loudspeaker) Headquarters personnel, report to command
center.

The voice repeats the order and Han, Chewie, Artoo, and
Threepio hurry out of the room, bidding farewell to Luke.

HAN: Take it easy.

THREEPIO: Excuse us, please.

INTERIOR: HOTH -- REBEL BASE -- COMMAND CENTER

Rieekan looks up grimly from a console screen. He calls
over to Leia and Han.

RIEEKAN: Princess...we have a visitor.

The group hurries over to Rieekan.

RIEEKAN: We've picked up something outside the base in zone twelve,
moving east.

SENIOR CONTROLLER: It's metal.

LEIA: Then it couldn't be one of those creatures that attacked Luke.

HAN: It could be a speeder, one of ours.

SENIOR CONTROLLER: No. Wait -- there's something very weak coming
through.

Threepio steps up to the control panel and listens intently
to the strange signal.

THREEPIO: Sir, I am fluent in six million forms of communication. This
signal is not used by the Alliance. It could be an Imperial code.

The transmission ends in static.

HAN: It isn't friendly, whatever it is. Come on, Chewie, let's check
it out.

RIEEKAN: Send Rouges Ten and Eleven to station three-eight.

EXTERIOR: HOTH -- SNOW PLAIN -- DAY

The dark probe robot moves past the smoldering ruins of
station three-eight and down a ridge toward the Rebel base. It
raises a large antenna from the top of its head and begins to
send out a piercing signal.
The probe droid has spotted Chewbacca who, not thirty feet
away, has popped his head over a snow bank. Instantly, the
probe robot swings around, its deadly ray ready to fire. But
before it can get a shot off, it is hit from behind by a laser
bolt, and explodes in a million pieces.
Han Solo replaces his blaster in its holster and peers
intently at the smoldering remains of the Imperial probe.

INTERIOR: HOTH -- REBEL BASE -- COMMAND CENTER

Leia and Rieekan listen to Han on the comlink.

HAN: (over comlink) Afraid there's not much left.

LEIA: (into comlink) What was it?

HAN: (over comlink) Droid of some kind. I didn't hit it that hard. It
must have had a self-destruct.

LEIA: (into comlink) An Imperial probe droid.

HAN: (over comlink) It's a good bet the Empire knows we're here.

RIEEKAN: We'd better start the evacuation.

EXTERIOR: SPACE -- IMPERIAL FLEET

Darth Vader's Star Destroyer, larger and more awesome than
the five Imperial Star Destroyers that surround it, sits in
the vastness of space. The six huge ships are surrounded by a
convoy of smaller spacecraft. TIE fighters dart to and fro.

INTERIOR: DARTH VADER'S STAR DESTROYER -- BRIDGE -- MAIN CONTROL DECK

Controllers working the vast complex of electronic controls
hear ominous approaching footsteps and look up from their
controls. The squat, evil-looking Admiral Ozzel and the young,
powerfully built General Veers, who have been conferring near
the front, also feel the approaching presence and turn toward
it. Darth Vader, Lord of the Sith, enters like a chill wind.
As Vader moves across the wide bridge, Captain Piett hurries
up to Ozzel.

PIETT: Admiral.

OZZEL: Yes, Captain

PIETT: I think we've got something, sir. The report is only a fragment
from a probe droid in the Hoth system, but it's the best lead we've
had.

OZZEL: (irritated) We have thousands of probe droids searching the
galaxy. I want proof, not leads!

PIETT: The visuals indicate life readings.

OZZEL: It could mean anything. If we followed every lead...

PIETT: But, sir, the Hoth system is supposed to be devoid of human
forms.

Vader moves to a large screen showing an image of the Rebel
snow base. Rebel speeders can be seen approaching the base in
the distance.

VADER: You found something?

PIETT: Yes, my lord.

VADER: (studying the image on the console screen) That's it. The
Rebels are there.

OZZEL: My lord, there are so many uncharted settlements. It could be
smugglers, it could be...

VADER: That is the system. And I'm sure Skywalker is with them. Set
your course for the Hoth system. General Veers, prepare you men.

INTERIOR: HOTH -- REBEL BASE -- TRANSPORT BAY

A captain issues instructions to two of his men at the
entrance to the main transport bay. Several Rebel transports
behind them are being loaded by men carrying heavy boxes and
moving quickly, but not in panic.

REBEL CAPTAIN: Groups seven and ten will stay behind to fly the
speeders. As soon as each transport is loaded, evacuation control will
give clearance for immediate launch.

REBEL FIGHTER: Right, sir.

INTERIOR: HOTH -- REBEL BASE -- MAIN HANGAR DECK

Alarms sound. Troops, ground crews, and droids rush to
their alert stations. Armored snowspeeders are lined up in
attack formation near the main entrance.
In the midst of all this activity, Han does some frantic
welding on the lifters of the Millennium Falcon.
Han finishes his work and hops down to the hangar floor. He
pulls out his comlink, all the while eyeing problematic
lifters.

HAN: (into comlink, to Chewie) Okay, that's it. Try it...Off! Turn it
off! Turn it off! Off!

Smoke rises from a minor explosion on the lifter.
Exasperated, Han surveys the new damage.

INTERIOR: REBEL BASE -- MEDICAL CENTER

Luke dresses in readiness for the evacuation as his
attending medical droid stands by.

MEDICAL DROID: Sir, it will take quite awhile to evacuate the T-forty-
sevens.

LUKE: Well, forget the heavy equipment. There's plenty of time to get
the smaller modules on the transports.

MEDICAL DROID: Take care, sir.

LUKE: Thanks.

INTERIOR: REBEL BASE -- MAIN HANGAR DECK

Pilots, gunners, and R2 units scurry about. Luke, pulling
on his heavy-weather jacket, is headed toward a row of armored
speeders. He stops at the rear of the Millennium Falcon, where
Han and Chewie are trying to repair the right lifter with even
more haste than before.

LUKE: Chewie, take care of yourself, okay?

As Luke pats Chewie on the arm, Chewie puts his arms around
Luke and gives him a tight hug. Han is discussing the lifter
with a repair droid when he sees Luke.

HAN: Hi, kid. (to droid) There's got to be a reason for it. Check it
at the other end. Wait a second. (to Luke) You all right?

LUKE: Yeah.

HAN: Be careful.

LUKE: You, too.

Luke smiles, then waves at his friend and walks on. After a
few steps, he stops and looks back. Han glances up and the two
exchange a silent communication, each wishing the other
safety, happiness -- many things, all difficult to verbalize.

INTERIOR: REBEL BASE -- CONTROL ROOM.

Alarms sound throughout the hidden Rebel base. In the
control room, a controller urgently gestures for General
Rieekan to check a computer scan.

CONTROLLER: General, there's a fleet of Star Destroyers coming out of
hyperspace in sector four.

RIEEKAN: Reroute all power to the energy shield. We've got to hold
them till all transports are away. Prepare for ground assault.

Rieekan exits hurriedly.

INTERIOR: VADER'S STAR DESTROYER -- VADER'S CHAMBER -- MEDITATION CUBICLE

The dark cubicle is illuminated by a single shaft of light
which falls on the brooding Dark Lord as he sits on a raised
meditation cube. General Veers enters the room and approaches
the silent, unmoving Vader. Although seemingly very sure of
himself, Veers is still not bold enough to interrupt the
meditating lord. The younger general stands quietly at
attention until the evil presence speaks.

VADER: What is it, General?

VEERS: My lord, the fleet has moves out of light-speed. Com-Scan has
detected an energy field protecting an area around the sixth planet of
the Hoth system. The field is strong enough to deflect any
bombardment.

VADER: (angrily) The Rebels are alerted to our presence. Admiral Ozzel
came out of light-speed too close to the system.

VEERS: He felt surprise was wiser...

VADER: He is as clumsy as he is stupid. General, prepare your troops
for a surface attack.

VEERS: Yes, my lord.

Veers turns smartly and leaves as Vader activates a large
viewscreen showing the bridge of his mighty ship. Admiral
Ozzel appears on the viewscreen, standing slightly in front of
Captain Piett.

OZZEL: Lord Vader, the fleet has moved out of light-speed, and we're
preparing to...Aaagh!

VADER: You have failed me for the last time, Admiral. Captain Piett.

Piett steps forward, as the admiral moves away, slightly
confused, touching his throat as it begins to constrict
painfully.

PIETT: Yes, my lord.

VADER: Make ready to land out troops beyond the energy shield and
deploy the fleet so that nothing gets off that system. You are in
command now, Admiral Piett.

PIETT: Thank you, Lord Vader.

Piett's pleasure about his unexpected promotion is not an
unmixed emotion. He glances warily at the struggling Admiral
Ozzel who, with a final choke, stumbles and falls in a
lifeless heap before him.

INTERIOR: REBEL BASE -- MAIN HANGAR DECK

With a sense of urgency, Leia quickly briefs a group of
pilots gathered in the center of the hangar.

LEIA: All troop carriers will assemble at the north entrance. The
heavy transport ships will leave as soon as they're loaded. Only two
fighter escorts per ship. The energy shield can only be opened for a
short time, so you'll have to stay very close to your transports.

HOBBIE: Two fighters against a Star Destroyer?

LEIA: The ion cannon will fire several shots to make sure that any
enemy ships will be out of your flight path. When you've gotten past
the energy shield, proceed directly to the rendezvous point.
Understood?

PILOTS: (in unison) Right. Okay.

LEIA: Good luck.

DERLIN: Okay. Everyone to your stations. Let's go!

The pilots hurry away.

EXTERIOR: HOTH -- ICE PLAIN -- SNOW TRENCH -- DAY

Rebel troops carry heavy bazooka-type weapons and position
them along the snow trench. Men hurriedly respond to their
officers' yelled orders and brace themselves against the
rhythmic gusts of bitter-cold wind.
Other troops load power packs into a gun turret and swing
its guns into position.

EXTERIOR: HOTH -- ICE PLAIN -- POWER GENERATORS

Near the base power generators, troops rush to set up their
heavy battle equipment. Buzzing loudly, the generators send
along, sparking fingers of energy into the bitter Hoth wind.

INTERIOR: REBEL BASE -- COMMAND CENTER

The long line of Rebel controllers is tense, as are
Princess Leia and General Rieekan, who are trying very hard
not to show any fear.

RIEEKAN: Their primary target will be the power generators. Prepare to
open the shield.

EXTERIOR: ICE PLAIN

The Rebel transport and two escort fighters begin their
departure from the ice planet.

EXTERIOR: SPACE -- IMPERIAL STAR DESTROYER

A huge Imperial Star Destroyer rest against a sea of stars,
far above the white surface of the planet Hoth.

INTERIOR: IMPERIAL STAR DESTROYER -- BRIDGE

An Imperial controller approaches his commander.

CONTROLLER: Sir, Rebel ships are coming into our sector.

CAPTAIN: Good. Our first catch of the day.

INTERIOR: REBEL BASE -- COMMAND CENTER

WOMAN CONTROLLER: Stand by, ion control....Fire!

EXTERIOR: REBEL BASE ICE CAVE -- ION CANNON

The giant ball-shaped ion cannon rotates into position and
blasts two red energy beams skyward.

EXTERIOR: SPACE -- HOTH -- REBEL TRANSPORT

The Rebel transport and its escort race away from the white
planet, closely followed by the two red energy beams.
As the Rebel transport races toward the waiting Imperial
Star Destroyer, it is overtaken by the two scarlet energy
bolts. The Imperial Star Destroyer is hit in the conning tower
by the powerful bolts, which set up fiery explosions on its
metal hull.
The big Star Destroyer veers, then spins wildly out of
control. As the Imperial ship careers into deep space, the
Rebel transport races away to safety.

INTERIOR: REBEL BASE -- MAIN HANGAR DECK

Pilots, gunners, and troopers hurry to their stations and
their vehicles.

ANNOUNCER: (over loudspeaker) The first transport is away.

Everyone cheers at the announcement, which echoes through
the hangar. Luke turns and walks on, heading toward his
snowspeeder. His gunner, Dack, a fresh-faced, eager kid, is
glad to see him. They climb in.

DACK: Feeling all right, sir?

LUKE: Just like new, Dack. How about you?

DACK: Right now I feel I could take on the whole Empire myself.

LUKE: (quietly, strapping in) I know what you mean.

EXTERIOR: HOTH -- ICE PLAIN

A thin horizon line cuts across the bleak landscape. Small
dot-size objects begin to appear on the horizon, moving in the
direction of the Rebel base.

EXTERIOR: HOTH -- ICE PLAIN -- SNOW TRENCH

A Rebel officer lifts a pair of electrobinoculars to his
eyes. Through the lens he sees a very close view of a giant
Imperial snow walker. He adjusts the view which then zooms
back to reveal three more of the ominous battle machines.
Small flashes of yellow fire billow from the guns of the
lumbering snow walkers.
The officer lowers his binoculars as the regular rhythmic
pounding begins to make the ground vibrate. The pounding grows
louder and is accompanied by a high-pitched, metallic
rattling. The officer speaks into his comlink.

TRENCH OFFICER: Echo Station Three-T-Eight.

INTERIOR: REBEL BASE -- CORRIDOR

Pilots and gunners race to their waiting snowspeeders. Ice
and snow begin falling from the walls of the corridor, shaken
by the pounding Imperial snow walker as they draw ever nearer.

TRENCH OFFICER: (over comlink) We have spotted Imperial walkers!

CONTROLLER: Imperial walkers on the north ridge.

EXTERIOR: HOTH -- ICE PLAIN -- SNOW TRENCH

The Rebel troops aim their weapons at the horizon as
explosions erupt all around them. They are nervous and their
grip on their weapons tightens from the cold and from fear.
Behind the troops a dozen snowspeeders race through the
sky.

INTERIOR: LUKE'S SNOWSPEEDER, ROUGE LEADER -- COCKPIT

LUKE: (into comlink) Echo station Five-Seven. We're on our way.

EXTERIOR: HOTH -- ICE PLAIN -- BATTLEFIELD

The fleet of snowspeeders races above the ice field at full
throttle. They accelerate away from the base and head toward
the distant walkers.

INTERIOR: LUKE'S SNOWSPEEDER, ROUGE LEADER -- COCKPIT

LUKE: (into comlink) All right, boys, keep tight now.

DACK: Luke, I have no approach vector. I'm not set.

LUKE: Steady, Dack. Attack pattern delta. Go now!

EXTERIOR: HOTH -- ICE PLAIN -- BATTLEFIELD

The cannons mounted on the walker head fire at the
speeders. Other walkers loom in the background. Two speeders
race away past two of the enormous walkers and bank to the
right.

INTERIOR: LUKE'S SNOWSPEEDER, ROUGE LEADER -- COCKPIT

LUKE: All right, I'm coming in.

He turns his speeder and heads directly at one of the
walkers, flying toward its towering legs. The horizon twists
as the speeder banks between the legs.

LUKE: (into comlink) Hobbie, you still with me?

EXTERIOR: HOTH -- ICE PLAIN -- BATTLEFIELD

Two speeders race directly at the head of a walker, then
split and fly past it.
Three other walkers march onward, firing all cannons.

EXTERIOR: HOTH -- ICE PLAIN -- SNOWTRENCH

Rebel troops fire on the approaching walkers, as the snow
and ice explode all around them.

EXTERIOR: HOTH -- ICE PLAIN -- BATTLEFIELD

A speeder banks through and away from the legs of a walker.
Two other speeders pass the first speeder from the opposite
direction. Other Rebel craft race just above the icy plain.
A giant walker head swivels and fires, striking a
snowspeeder and sending it crashing in a ball of flames.

INTERIOR: IMPERIAL SNOW WALKER -- COCKPIT

General Veers and two walker pilots keep a careful eye on
the racing Rebel snowspeeders as they maneuver their lumbering
war machine forward.
Luke's speeder banks in from the side of Veers's walker and
heads straight for its viewport, blasting away. An explosion
hits the walker window, but dissipates, doing no harm. The
speeder roars up and over the impregnable war machine.

INTERIOR: LUKE'S SNOWSPEEDER, ROUGE LEADER -- COCKPIT

Luke looks back at the walker as it grows smaller in the
distance.

LUKE: That armor's too strong for blasters.

On the horizon, another walker moves up past Luke's cockpit
window, twisting out of sight as Luke banks and starts another
run.

LUKE: (into comlink) Rouge Group, use your harpoons and tow cables. Go
for the legs. It might be our only chance of stopping them. (to Dack)
All right, stand by, Dack.

Dack is at the gunner's controls.

DACK: Luke, we've got a malfunction in fire control. I'll have to cut
in the auxiliary.

LUKE: Just hang on. Hang on, Dack. Get ready to fire that tow cable.

Barely keeping his seat in the tumbling ship, Dack struggles
to set up his harpoon gun.
Luke swings his speeder around and heads toward an oncoming
walker. Laser bolts and flak fill the air, creating a deadly
obstacle course for the tiny craft.

EXTERIOR: HOTH -- ICE PLAIN -- BATTLEFIELD

Rouge Leader and another snowspeeder fly in tight formation
toward the walker as explosions burst all around them.

INTERIOR: LUKE'S SNOWSPEEDER, ROUGE LEADER -- COCKPIT

After sustaining a heavy volley of fire, Luke turns around
to see if Dack is all right.

LUKE: Dack? Dack!

Dack is lost. Blood streams down his forehead, which
rests on his smoldering controls. Out the back window, an
Imperial walker recedes in the distance.

EXTERIOR: HOTH -- ICE PLAIN -- SNOW TRENCH AREA

Rebel troops fire the dishlike ray gun while explosions
erupt around them.

EXTERIOR: HOTH -- ICE PLAIN -- BATTLEFIELD

Two walkers lumber toward the Rebel base as a speeder
between them explodes in a ball of flames.

EXTERIOR: HOTH -- ICE PLAIN -- SNOW TRENCH

The dislike ray gun is hit by a laser bolt and instantly
explodes.

INTERIOR: IMPERIAL SNOW WALKER -- COCKPIT

Through the cockpit window, Veers and his pilot can see the
Rebel power generators in the distance.
A hologram of Darth Vader appears on a control panel
screen.

VEERS: Yes, Lord Vader. I've reached the main power generator. The
shield will be down in moments. You may start your landing.

INTERIOR: LUKE'S SNOWSPEEDER, ROUGE LEADER -- COCKPIT

LUKE: (into comlink) Rouge Three.

INTERIOR: WEDGE'S SNOWSPEEDER, ROUGE THREE -- COCKPIT

WEDGE: (into comlink) Copy, Rouge Leader

LUKE: (over comlink) Wedge, I've lost my gunner. You'll have to make
this shot. I'll cover for you. Set your harpoon. Follow me on the next
pass.

WEDGE: (into comlink) Coming around, Rouge Leader.

INTERIOR: LUKE'S SNOWSPEEDER, ROUGE LEADER -- COCKPIT

LUKE: (into comlink) Steady, Rouge Two

EXTERIOR: HOTH -- BATTLEFIELD

Wedge's speeder races through the legs of one of the
monstrous walkers.

INTERIOR: WEDGE'S SNOWSPEEDER, ROUGE THREE -- COCKPIT

WEDGE: (to gunner) Activate harpoon.

Wedge's gunner reaches for a firing switch to activate the
harpoon. The harpoon flashes out, and speeds toward the
receding legs of the walker.

EXTERIOR: HOTH -- BATTLEFIELD

The harpoon hurtles toward the walker, In an instant it is
embedded in one of the walker's legs.

INTERIOR: WEDGE'S SNOWSPEEDER, ROUGE THREE -- COCKPIT

WEDGE: (to gunner) Good shot, Janson.

EXTERIOR: HOTH -- BATTLEFIELD

The speeder Rouge Three races around one of the giant
walker's feet, trailing the cable behind it. Continuing around
the back foot, Rouge Three then circles the walker around the
tail end.

INTERIOR: WEDGE'S SNOWSPEEDER, ROUGE THREE -- COCKPIT

Wedge checks his controls and banks around the front of the
walker.

WEDGE: One more pass.

JANSON: Coming around. Once more.

EXTERIOR: HOTH -- BATTLEFIELD

The speeder sweeps left to right in front of the giant
legs, towing the cable behind it.

INTERIOR: WEDGE'S SNOWSPEEDER, ROUGE THREE -- COCKPIT

JANSON: One more.

Wedge swings the speeder between the legs of the giant
walker.

JANSON: Cable out! Let her go!

WEDGE: Detach cable.

EXTERIOR: WEDGE'S SNOWSPEEDER, ROUGE THREE

The cable release on the back of the speeder snaps loose
and the cable drops away.

INTERIOR: WEDGE'S SNOWSPEEDER, ROUGE THREE -- COCKPIT

JANSON: Cable detached.

EXTERIOR: HOTH -- BATTLEFIELD

The speeder zooms away into the distance. The tangled legs
of the enormous war machine attempt a step, but as they do the
giant Imperial walker begins to topple. It teeters for a
moment, and then crashes onto the icy ground, sending snow and
metal pieces flying.

EXTERIOR: HOTH -- ICE PLAIN -- SNOW TRENCH

The troops in the trenches cheer at the sight of the
crashing walker.
An officer gives a signal to his men and Rebel troops
charge the fallen war machine.

TRENCH OFFICER: Come on!

The troops run toward the downed walker, followed by two
Rebel speeders flying overhead. Just as they reach the walker,
it explodes, the impact throwing some of the men onto the
frozen ground.

INTERIOR: WEDGE'S SNOWSPEEDER, ROUGE THREE -- COCKPIT

Wedge lets out a triumphant yell, banking his speeder away
from the fallen walker.

WEDGE: (into comlink) Whooha!! That got him!

INTERIOR: LUKE'S SNOWSPEEDER, ROUGE LEADER -- COCKPIT

LUKE: (into comlink) I see it, Wedge. Good work.

INTERIOR: REBEL BASE -- COMMAND CENTER

Large chunks of ice tumble into the command center as Leia
and General Rieekan monitor computer screens.

RIEEKAN: I don't think we can protect two transports at a time.

LEIA: It's risky, but we can't hold out much longer. We have no
choice.

RIEEKAN: (into comlink) Launch patrols.

LEIA: (to an aide) Evacuate remaining ground staff.

INTERIOR: REBEL BASE -- MAIN HANGAR

Muffled distant explosions create widening cracks in the
ice roof of the hangar. Trying to ignore the noise and falling
bits of snow, Han works on one of the Falcon's lifters while
Chewie works on one of the wings. Noticing Chewie attach a
wrong part, Han grows impatient.

HAN: No, no! No! This one goes there, that one goes there. right?

In another area of the hangar, Threepio watches as Artoo is
raised up into Luke's X-wing fighter.

THREEPIO: Artoo, you take good care of Master Luke now, understand?
And...do take care of yourself. Oh, dear, oh, dear.

EXTERIOR: HOTH -- BATTLEFIELD

The fierce battle on the vast snow plains of Hoth rages on.
The Imperial walkers continue their slow, steady assault on
the Rebel base, firing lasers as they lumber ever onward. In
the snow trench, Rebel troops fire large bazookalike guns and
dishlike ray guns as explosions erupt around them. A gun tower
is hit by a laser bolt and instantly explodes. Another blast
destroys a ray gun.

INTERIOR: IMPERIAL SNOW WALKER -- COCKPIT

General Veers studies various readouts on his control
panel.

VEERS: All troops will debark for ground assault. Prepare to target
the main generator.

EXTERIOR: HOTH -- BATTLEFIELD

Luke's speeder and Rouge Two fly in formation, banking from
right to left and flying above the erupting battlefield. Flak
bursts all around them.

INTERIOR: LUKE'S SNOWSPEEDER, ROUGE LEADER -- COCKPIT

Luke, glancing over, sees Rouge Two on his left. His ship
shudders as flak bursts nearby.

LUKE: (into comlink) Rouge Two, are you all right?

INTERIOR: ZEV'S SNOWSPEEDER, ROUGE TWO -- COCKPIT

ZEV: (into comlink) Yeah. I'm with you, Rouge Leader.

INTERIOR: LUKE'S SNOWSPEEDER, ROUGE LEADER -- COCKPIT

LUKE: (into comlink) We'll set harpoon. I'll cover for you.

EXTERIOR: HOTH -- BATTLEFIELD

The two speeders race across the horizon toward the giant
walkers.

INTERIOR: ZEV'S SNOWSPEEDER, ROUGE TWO -- COCKPIT

ZEV: (into comlink) Coming around.

INTERIOR: LUKE'S SNOWSPEEDER, ROUGE LEADER -- COCKPIT

LUKE: (into comlink) Watch that cross fire, boys.

INTERIOR: ZEV'S SNOWSPEEDER, ROUGE TWO -- COCKPIT

ZEV: (into comlink) Set for position three. (to gunner) Steady.

LUKE: (over comlink) Stay tight and low.

EXTERIOR: ZEV'S SNOWSPEEDER, ROUGE TWO

Luke's speeder moves in formation with Rouge Two, when
suddenly Zev's speeder is hit by a laser bolt. His ship bucks
violently under the impact and the cockpit explodes in a ball
of flame.
Spewing smoke, the speeder hurtles toward a looming walker.
Before they collide. Rouge Two explodes in a million flaming
pieces.

INTERIOR: LUKE'S SNOWSPEEDER, ROUGE LEADER -- COCKPIT

Desperately, Luke works the controls of his flak-buffeted
ship. Suddenly, the speeder is rocked by a huge explosion.
Luke struggles with the controls with a look of terror on his
face. The speeder fills with smoke, and electrical sparks jump
about the cockpit.

LUKE: (into comlink) Hobbie, I've been hit!

INTERIOR: REBEL BASE -- COMMAND CENTER

Apart from the distant thunder of laser blasts, the
corridor is strangely quiet and empty. Running footsteps echo
through the freezing hallway, then Han appears. Cracks have
appeared in some of the walls and some pipes have broken,
sending hot steam billowing into the underground hallways. Han
hurries into the command center. It is a shambles, but some
people are still at their posts. As he enters, a gigantic
cave-in almost obliterates the room. He finds Leia and
Threepio near one of the control boards.

HAN: You all right?

Leia nods. She is surprised to see him.

LEIA: Why are you still here?

HAN: I heard the command center had been hit.

LEIA: You got your clearance to leave.

HAN: Don't worry. I'll leave. First I'm going to get you to your ship.

THREEPIO: Your Highness, we must take this last transport. It's our
only hope.

LEIA: (to controller) Send all troops in sector twelve to the south
slope to protect the fighters.

A blast rocks the command center, throwing Threepio
backward into Han's arms.

ANNOUNCER: (over loudspeaker) Imperial troops have entered the base.

HAN: Come on...that's it.

LEIA: (to head controller) Give the evacuation code signal. And get to
your transports!

Leia looks exhausted. Han grabs her and starts to lead her
out.
As Han, Leia, and Threepio run out of the command center,
the code signal can be heard echoing off the corridor walls.

HEAD CONTROLLER: K-one-zero...all troops disengage.

THREEPIO: (to Han and Leia) Oh! Wait for me!

EXTERIOR: BATTLEFIELD -- SNOW TRENCH

Rebel troops retreat under the awesome Imperial onslaught.

OFFICER: Begin retreat!

SECOND OFFICER: Fall back!

Troops flee from the battle, the ground exploding around
them.

EXTERIOR: HOTH -- BATTLEFIELD

Three of the giant walkers, firing lasers, advance toward
the Rebel headquarters.

EXTERIOR: HOTH -- SNOW TRENCH

Continuing their retreat, the Rebels see the walkers
looming ever nearer.

EXTERIOR: HOTH -- BATTLEFIELD -- ICE PLAIN

On the battlefield, Luke watches as a walker foot rises and
moves over him. He looks up at the underbelly of the huge
walker, passing overhead.
Running beneath the monstrous machine, Luke fires his
harpoon gun at the walker's underside. A thin cable follows
the projectile from the gun. The magnetic head and cable
attach firmly to the metal hull.
Still running under the walker, Luke attaches the cable
drum to his belt buckle. Soon he is pulled up the cable and
hangs dangling underneath the walker.
The walker's giant feet continue to pound onward across the
frozen snow. Stray laser bolts whistle by Luke as he climbs up
the cable to the walker's hull, reaching a small hatch.
Hanging precariously, Luke cuts the solid metal hatch with his
laser sword.
He takes a landmine from around his neck and throws it
inside the Imperial machine. Quickly, Luke starts down the
cable and crashes onto the icy ground far below. He lies
unconscious as a giant rear leg passes by -- and just misses 
him.
The giant walker stops in mid-step. A muffled explosion
comes from within -- and then the walker's mechanical insides 
are spewed out every conceivable opening. The machine sits
dead in its tracks, smoking like a locomotive on stilts.

EXTERIOR: HOTH -- BATTLEFIELD

Veers's walker continues to advance toward the Rebel base.
The smoldering walker that Luke exploded stands smoking just
to the right of Veers's path.

INTERIOR: IMPERIAL SNOW WALKER - COCKPIT

Inside his walker, General Veers prepares to fire on the
Rebel power generators.

VEERS: Distance to power generators?

PILOT: One-seven, decimal two-eight.

Veers reaches for the electrorangefinder and lines up the
main generator.

VEERS: Target. Maximum fire power.

EXTERIOR: HOTH -- BATTLEFIELD

The Rebel troops continue their desperate retreat, pushed
back by the relentless Imperial assault.

INTERIOR: HOTH -- REBEL BASE -- ICE CORRIDORS

With Threepio lagging behind, Han and Leia race through the
crumbling ice corridors. Suddenly, there is an explosion. Han
turns, grabs the princess, and pulls her to the wall as a
tremendous cave-in blacks their path.
He takes the comlink from his pocket.

HAN: (into comlink) Transport, this is Solo. Better take off -- I
can't get to you. I'll get the princess out on the Falcon.

Han and Leia turn and race down the corridor.

THREEPIO: But...but...but...where are you going? Uh...come back!!

INTERIOR: HOTH -- REBEL BASE -- COMMAND CENTER

Imperial troops have reached the base. As they push through
the blocked passageway, Darth Vader strides behind them.

INTERIOR: HOTH -- REBEL BASE -- ICE CORRIDOR

Han and Leia run toward the entrance of the main hangar
where the Millennium Falcon is docked. Threepio still lags
behind.

THREEPIO: Wait! Wait for me! Wait! Stop!

The door to the hangar closes in his face.

THREEPIO: (exasperated) How typical.

Quickly, the door reopens as Han reaches out and pulls the
golden droid through.

HAN: Come on.

INTERIOR: HOTH -- REBEL BASE -- MAIN HANGAR

Chewie paces under the shelter of the Millennium Falcon's
landing gear. The giant Wookiee pats the underbelly of his
beloved ship and barks a few reassuring words. As he searches
worriedly for his captain, something at last catches his eye.
Chewie lets out a relieved shriek at seeing Han and Leia
running toward the ship. The Wookiee runs out into the
falling ice, lets out a howl, then runs up the ship's ramp.
Han and Leia run up the ramp after him, closely followed by
Threepio.

HAN: Hurry up, goldenrod, or you're going to be a permanent resident!

THREEPIO: Wait! Wait!

INTERIOR: HOTH -- REBEL BASE -- ICE CORRIDOR

Imperial troops run through the base corridors. Vader
surveys the place. A huge chunk falls, almost hitting him, but 
he calmly, purposefully, continues around it.

INTERIOR: REBEL BASE -- MAIN HANGER -- MILLENNIUM FALCON

A distant, huge, explosion rocks the hangar deck. Ice cakes
come crashing down on the Millennium Falcon.

INTERIOR: MAIN HANGAR -- MILLENNIUM FALCON -- MAIN HOLD

Han, standing before a control panel, is busy flipping
switches as Chewie watches a troublesome gauge. A worried Leia
observes their efforts.

HAN: (to Chewie) How's this?

The Wookiee barks a negative reply.

LEIA: Would it helped if I got out and pushed?

HAN: It might.

Threepio clanks into the hold.

THREEPIO: Captain Solo, Captain Solo...sir, might I suggest that
you...

Han gives the gold robot a devastating look.

THREEPIO: It can wait.

INTERIOR: MAIN HANGAR -- MILLENNIUM FALCON -- COCKPIT

They move to the cockpit where Han flips some more
switches. Leia watches him, impatient, disbelieving.

LEIA: The bucket of bolts is never going to get us past that blockade.

HAN: This baby's got a few surprises left in her, sweetheart.

Han and Leia look out the cockpit window and see a squad of
stormtroopers rushing into the far side of the hangar.
Quickly, Han straps himself into the pilot's seat and Leia
into the navigator's chair.

INTERIOR: HOTH -- REBEL BASE -- MAIN HANGAR

Stormtroopers hurriedly set up a large bazookalike weapon.
Behind them the giant hangar doors open slowly.

EXTERIOR: MAIN HANGAR -- MILLENNIUM FALCON

A laser gun appears on the Falcon and swings around to aim
at the Imperial troops.
The stormtroopers, preparing to fire their bazooka cannon,
are hit by the Falcon's fire and are thrown about in all
directions.

INTERIOR: MAIN HANGAR -- MILLENNIUM FALCON -- COCKPIT

Chewie rushes into the cockpit.

HAN: Come on! Come on! Switch over. Let's hope we don't have a
burnout.

A laser hits the window near Chewie as he is settling into
his chair. Letting out a loud whelp, Chewie quickly pulls back
on the controls and the first stage of engine fire can be
heard. Han flashes a big grin at Leia.

HAN: See?

LEIA: Someday you're going to be wrong, and I hope I'm there to see it.

Han looks at Chewie.

HAN: Punch it!

The roar of the Falcon's main engines blasts out everything
as the ice-cave wall rushes by outside the cockpit window.

INTERIOR: REBEL BASE -- MAIN HANGAR

More stormtroopers run into the hangar, closely followed by
Vader. Hearing the loud roar of the Millennium Falcon's
engines, Vader looks toward the main hangar doors just in time
to see the Falcon lift up and disappear outside the cave.

EXTERIOR: HOTH -- ICE SLOPE -- DAY

Luke and two other pilots look up as the Millennium Falcon
races above them, flying very close to the ground.
The three pilots turn then, and trudge onward toward their
X-wing fighters, each going to his own ship. Luke waves
farewell, then heads toward his own fighter.
Artoo, seated on his cubbyhole, chirps an excited greeting
as Luke climbs aboard the spacecraft.

LUKE: Artoo! Get her ready for takeoff.

From his ship, Luke sees Wedge in his own X-wing, preparing
for takeoff.

WEDGE: Good luck, Luke. See you at the rendezvous.

Luke smiles and nods at Wedge, then lowers himself into the
cockpit of his X-wing while Artoo waits in the cubbyhole,
beeping impatiently.

LUKE: Don't worry, Artoo. We're going, we're going.

The canopy over the X-wing lowers and snaps shut.

EXTERIOR: SPACE -- LUKE'S X-WING

Luke's fighter, its wings closed, speeds away from the icy
planet. Soon it disappears into the stars.

INTERIOR: LUKE'S X-WING -- COCKPIT

Luke, looking thoughtful, suddenly makes a decision. He
flips several switches. The stars shift as he takes his
fighter into a steep turn. The X-wing banks sharply and flies
away in a new direction.
The monitor screen on Luke's control panel prints out a
question from the concerned Artoo.

LUKE: (into comlink) There's nothing wrong, Artoo. I'm just setting a
new course.

Artoo beeps once again.

LUKE: (into comlink) We're not going to regroup with the others.

Artoo begins a protest, whistling an unbelieving, "What?!"
Luke reads Artoo's exclamation on his control panel.

LUKE: (into comlink) We're going to the Dagobah system.

Luke checks his readouts and makes a few adjustments. He
rides along with only the soft hum of the instruments to break
the silence. Finally, Artoo chirps up.

LUKE: (into comlink) Yes, Artoo?

Artoo utters a soft, carefully phrased steam of whistles.

LUKE: (into comlink, chuckling) That's all right. I'd like to keep it
on manual control for a while.

The little droid lets out a defeated whimper. Luke smiles,
and continues on his course.

EXTERIOR: SPACE -- MILLENNIUM FALCON

The Millennium Falcon speeds away from Hoth, closely
followed by one huge Star Destroyer and four tiny TIE
fighters.
As it is pursued, the Falcon races toward two very bright
star-sized objects.

INTERIOR: MILLENNIUM FALCON -- COCKPIT

Inside the cockpit, Chewie lets out a loud howl. Han checks
as the ship is buffeted by exploding flak. He appears to be
doing six things at once.

HAN: (harried) I saw them! I saw them!

LEIA: Saw what?

HAN: Star Destroyers, two of them, coming right at us.

Threepio bumps and bangs his way into the cockpit.

THREEPIO: Sir, sir! Might I suggest...

HAN: (to Leia) Shut him up or shut him down! (to Chewie) Check the
deflector shield!

Chewie barks a reply as he readjusts an overhead switch.

HAN: Oh, great. Well, we can still outmaneuver them.

EXTERIOR: SPACE -- MILLENNIUM FALCON -- STAR DESTROYERS

The Millennium Falcon races toward one of the huge oncoming
Star Destroyers. Suddenly, the Falcon starts into a deep dive
straight down, closely followed by four TIE fighters. The
underside of the Star Destroyer continues on a collision
course with two oncoming Star Destroyers. Slowly, it starts
to veer to the left.

INTERIOR: STAR DESTROYER -- BRIDGE

Out the front window, the two approaching Star Destroyers
can be seen veering to the left.

IMPERIAL OFFICER: Take evasive action!

Alarms sound all over the huge ship. The two other Star
Destroyers get closer, one of them moving over the bridge so
close that it makes brushing contact with it.

EXTERIOR: SPACE -- MILLENNIUM FALCON -- TIE FIGHTERS

The Millennium Falcon races away from the colliding Star
Destroyers, still followed by four TIE fighters. Laser bolts
spark the pitch-black skies.

INTERIOR: MILLENNIUM FALCON -- COCKPIT

Things have calmed down a bit, but the race isn't over yet.
Chewie barks at Han. Leia is still trying to recover from the
steep dive. The ship is buffeted by laser blasts.

HAN: Prepare to make the jump to light-speed.

THREEPIO: But, sir!

The buffeting of lasers becomes louder and stronger.

LEIA: They're getting closer!

HAN: (with a gleam in his eye) Oh yeah? Watch this.

Expectantly, they look out the cockpit window as stars do
not go into hyperspace, but just sit there.
Han and Chewie look at each other and are thrown into an
acute state of concern.

LEIA: Watch what?

Han tries again. Still nothing.

HAN: I think we're in trouble.

THREEPIO: If I may say so, sir, I noticed earlier the hyperdrive
motivator has been damaged. It's impossible to go to light-speed!

HAN: We're in trouble!

The explosions become heavier.

EXTERIOR: SPACE -- MILLENNIUM FALCON -- TIE FIGHTERS -- STAR DESTROYER

The Falcon races into the starry vastness, followed by the
four Imperial TIE fighters and an Imperial Star Destroyer.

INTERIOR: MILLENNIUM FALCON -- COCKPIT

Stars race by as flak bursts outside the Falcon's window.

INTERIOR: MILLENNIUM FALCON -- HOLD


Han works furiously at some control panels while giving
various orders to Chewie.

HAN: Horizontal boosters...!

(Chewie barks)

HAN: Alluvial dampers...! Well that's not it.

(Chewie barks)

HAN: Bring me the hydrospanners!

Chewie hurries over to the pit and places the tools on the
edge.

HAN: I don't know how we're going to get out of this one.

Suddenly, a loud thump hits the side of the Falcon,
causing it to lurch radically. Chewie barks. The tools fall
into the pit on top of Han.

HAN: Oww! Chewie!

More turbulence rocks the ship.

HAN: That was no laser blast! Something hit us.

LEIA: (over comlink) Han, get up here!

HAN: Come on, Chewie!

Han climbs out of the hold like a shot. Both he and Chewie
run out of the hold and toward the cockpit.

INTERIOR: MILLENNIUM FALCON -- COCKPIT

Out the front cockpit window, they see hundreds of
asteroids racing by.

LEIA: Asteroids!

Han changes places with Leia who has been at the controls,
and Chewie gets into his chair. Han works his controls as a
chunk of rock crosses in front of the ship.

HAN: Oh, no! Chewie, set two-seven-one.

LEIA: What are you doing? You're not actually going into an asteroid
field?

HAN: They'd be crazy to follow us, wouldn't they?

Another asteroid thumps against the ship and Leia winces at
the jolt.

LEIA: You don't have to do this to impress me.

THREEPIO: Sir, the possibility of successfully navigating an asteroid
field is approximately three thousand, seven hundred and twenty to one.

HAN: Never tell me the odds!

EXTERIOR: ASTEROID BELT -- MILLENNIUM FALCON

The Falcon turns into the asteroid storm and as the ship
completes its turn, asteroids start coming straight at the
cockpit windows.
A large asteroid tumbles away from the Falcon's path at top
speed. Several smaller asteroids crash into the big one,
creating small explosions on its surface. Other asteroids of
all sizes pass by in every direction, some colliding and
exploding. The tiny Millennium Falcon veers around the big
asteroid and races past it through the rain of rocks, followed
by four TIE fighters, which bob and weave around the
asteroids.
One of the pursuing TIE fighters connects with an asteroid
and explodes. The other fighters are pelted with a steady
stream of smaller explosions.
Two huge asteroids tumble toward the Millennium Falcon,
which quickly banks around both of them. The three TIE
fighters follow in hot pursuit until one of the fighters
scrapes an asteroid and tumbles out of control into deep
space.

EXTERIOR: SPACE -- STAR DESTROYER -- ASTEROID BELT

The massive Star Destroyer blasts oncoming asteroids as it
follows the Falcon. Smaller asteroids explode across its vast
surface.

EXTERIOR: MILLENNIUM FALCON -- TIE FIGHTERS -- ASTEROID BELT

The Falcon twists on its side as it races around an
oncoming asteroid. Two TIE fighters follow in the distance,
coming from either side.

INTERIOR: MILLENNIUM FALCON -- COCKPIT

Asteroids race by the cockpit window as Han pilots his
trusty craft through the dangerous field.
Looking out the cockpit window, the Falcon crew sees a big
asteroid drop past the window, narrowly missing their ship.
Chewie barks in terror as a slightly smaller asteroid comes
especially close -- to close -- and bounces off the Falcon
with a loud crunch. Threepio's hands cover his eyes. He
manages a short peek at the cockpit window. Princess Leia sits
stone-faced, staring at the action. Han gives her a quick
look.

HAN: You said you wanted to be around when I made a mistake; well,
this could be it, sweetheart.

LEIA: I take it back. We're going to get pulverized if we stay out
here much longer.

The group watches as more asteroids race by outside the
window.

HAN: I'm not going to argue with that.

THREEPIO: Pulverized?

HAN: I'm going in closer to one of the big ones.

LEIA: Closer?

THREEPIO: Closer?!

Chewbacca barks the same word, only louder.

EXTERIOR: MILLENNIUM FALCON -- ASTEROID BELT

The Millennium Falcon dives toward the surface of one of
the moon-sized asteroids. There is a continued display of
explosions against the starry void as smaller asteroids
collide with larger chunks of rock. The two remaining TIE
fighters follow the Falcon to the large asteroid. The Falcon
skims the surface of the giant asteroid as, all the while,
small asteroids explode on the surface of the ship.
The TIE fighters approach the Falcon, but a giant asteroid
hurtles directly into their path. As the asteroid continues on
its way, it leaves remains of the two exploded TIE fighters to
tumble into deep space.

INTERIOR: MILLENNIUM FALCON -- COCKPIT

Rattled by the violent rocking of the starship, Threepio is
nearly in hysterics.

THREEPIO: Oh, this is suicide!

Han notices something on his main scope and nudges his
faithful Wookiee, pointing.

HAN: There. That looks pretty good.

LEIA: What looks pretty good?

HAN: Yeah. That'll do nicely.

THREEPIO: (to Leia) Excuse me, ma'am, but where are we going?

Out the cockpit window, they see that they are skimming the
surface of the enormous asteroid and nearing a large crater.

EXTERIOR: MILLENNIUM FALCON -- GIANT ASTEROID CRATER

The Millennium Falcon dives into the huge crater and
disappears.

INTERIOR: MILLENNIUM FALCON -- COCKPIT

LEIA: I hope you know what you're doing.

HAN: Yeah, me too.

INTERIOR: GIANT ASTEROID CRATER

The Falcon races down into the crater. The walls are barely
visible as the ship speed through the tunnellike opening. A
small cave appears on one side of the crater, and the Falcon
turns, slows, and scoots into it.

EXTERIOR: SPACE -- LUKE'S X-WING

The tiny X-wing speeds toward the cloud cover of Dagobah.
Artoo, riding on the back of the fighter, turns his head back
and forth with some anxiety.

INTERIOR: LUKE'S X-WING -- COCKPIT

Luke watches Artoo's words as they are translated and
screened on the computer scope.

LUKE: (into comlink) Yes, that's it. Dagobah.

Artoo beeps a hopeful inquiry.

LUKE: (into comlink) No, I'm not going to change my mind about this.
(getting a little nervous) I'm not picking up any cities or
technology. Massive life-form readings, though. There's something
alive down there...

Artoo beeps, this time a slightly worried question.

LUKE: (into comlink) Yes, I'm sure it's perfectly safe for droids.

EXTERIOR: SPACE -- DAGOBAH -- LUKE'S X-WING

The X-wing continues its flight through the twilight above
the cloud-covered planet.

INTERIOR: LUKE'S X-WING -- COCKPIT

Luke sees the cloud race by as he takes his craft closer
to the planet. He must operate his controls carefully since
the cloud cover has completely obscured his vision. An alarm
buzzes in the background, Artoo beeps and whistles
frantically.

LUKE: (into comlink) I know, I know! All the scopes are dead. I can't
see a thing! Just hang on, I'm going to start the landing cycle...

The blast of the retrorockets is deafening, drowning out
Artoo's electronic squeals. Suddenly, there is a cracking
sound as if limbs were being broken off trees and then a
tremendous jolt as the spacecraft stops. Luke pulls a switch
and his canopy pops open.

EXTERIOR: DAGOBAH -- DUSK

The mist-shrouded X-wing fighter is almost invisible in the
thick fog. Luke climbs out onto the long nose of the
spacecraft as Artoo pops out of his cubbyhole on the back. The
young warrior surveys the fog, which is barely pierced by the
ship's landing lights. About all he can make out are some
giant, twisted trees nearby. Artoo whistles anxiously.

LUKE: No, Artoo, you stay put. I'll have a look around.

Artoo lets out a short beep. As Luke moves along the nose,
Artoo loses his balance and disappears with a splash into the
boggy lake.

LUKE: Artoo?

Luke kneels and leans over the plane looking for Artoo, but
the water is still and reveals no sign of the little droid.

LUKE: Artoo! Where are you?

A small periscope breaks the surface of the water and a
gurgly beep is heard. The periscope starts to move to shore.
Relieved, Luke starts running along the nose of the fighter to
its tip.

LUKE: Artoo! You be more careful.

The outline of the shore is now more than ten feet away.
Luke jumps off the plane into the water, scrambles up to the
shore, and turns to look for Artoo. The periscope still
steadily moves toward shore.

LUKE: Artoo -- that way!

Suddenly, through the thick fog layer, a dark shape
appears, moving toward the little droid. The dark, sinuous bog
beast dives beneath the swampy water, making a loud clunk
against Artoo's metal hull. The droid disappears from sight,
uttering a pathetic electronic scream.
Holding his ignited lightsaber before him, Luke wades a few
feet into the murky pool, looking for any sign of his little
friend.

LUKE: Artoo!

The black surface is still as death itself...until a few
bubbles begin to appear. Then, phheewaat!! The runt-size robot
is spit out of the water, makes a graceful arc, and comes
crashing down into a patch of soft gray moss.

LUKE: Oh, no! Are you all right? Come on. You're lucky you don't taste
very good. Anything broken?

Luke helps Artoo to his feet and begins wiping the mud and
roots from his round metal body. Artoo responds with feeble,
soggy beeps.

LUKE: If you're saying coming here was a bad idea, I'm beginning to
agree with you. Oh, Artoo, what are we doing here? It's like...
something out of a dream, or, I don't know. Maybe I'm just going
crazy.

As Luke glances around at the spooky swamp jungle that
surrounds him, Artoo ejects a stream of muddy water from one
of his cranial ports.

EXTERIOR: VADER'S STAR DESTROYER -- VADER'S CHAMBER

Admiral Piett hesitates in the entryway to Vader's private
cubicle. After a moment, he steps into the room and pauses at
the surprising sight before him.
Darth Vader, his back turned, is silhouetted in the gloom
on the far side of the chamber. A black, insectlike droid
attends him. Among the various apparatuses surrounding them, a
respirator tube now retracts from Vader's uncovered head. The
head is bald with a mass of ugly scar tissue covering it. The
black droid then lowers the mask and helmet onto Vader's head.
When it is in place, the Dark Lord turns to face Piett.

VADER: Yes, Admiral?

PIETT: Our ships have sighted the Millennium Falcon, lord. But...it
has entered an asteroid field and we cannot risk...

VADER: (interrupting) Asteroids do not concern me, Admiral. I want
that ship and not excuses.

PIETT: Yes, lord.

EXTERIOR: ASTEROID CAVE -- MILLENNIUM FALCON

The pirate starship rests in a dark, dripping asteroid
cave. It is so dark that the cave's exact dimensions are
impossible to determine.

INTERIOR: MILLENNIUM FALCON -- COCKPIT

Han and Chewie busily shut down the engine and all
electronic systems. Threepio and Leia watch worriedly.

HAN: I'm going to shut down everything but the emergency power
systems. 

THREEPIO: Sir, I'm almost afraid to ask, but...does that include
shutting me down, too?

Chewie barks "yes". But Han thinks otherwise.

HAN: No, I need you to talk to the Falcon, find out what's wrong with
the hyperdrive.

Suddenly, the ship lurches, causing all the loose items in
the cockpit to go flying. Chewie howls.

THREEPIO: Sir, it's quite possible this asteroid is not entirely
stable.

HAN: Not entirely stable? I'm glad you're here to tell us these
things.  Chewie, take the professor in the back and plug him into the
hyperdrive.

THREEPIO: Oh! Sometimes I just don't understand human behavior. After
all, I'm only trying to do my job in the most...

The sliding door closes behind the indignant Threepio as
Chewie and he move back to the hold. Suddenly, the ship
lurches again, throwing Leia across the cabin into Han's arms.
Then, abruptly, the motion stops as suddenly as it started.
With some surprise, Han and Leia realize they are in each
other's arms.

LEIA: Let go.

HAN: Sshh!

LEIA: Let go, please.

Leia flushes, averting her eyes. She's not exactly fighting
to get free. But, of course, Han blows it...

HAN: Don't get excited.

The anger rises in Leia.

LEIA: Captain, being held by you isn't quite enough to get me excited.

HAN: Sorry, sweetheart. We haven't got time for anything else.

Han grins quickly wickedly at Leia as he turns and exits
through the door. Leia's confused emotions show clearly on her
lovely face.

EXTERIOR: DAGOBAH -- BOG CLEARING -- DUSK

The mist has dispersed a bit, but it is still a very
gloomy-looking swamp.
Luke pulls an equipment box from the shore to the clearing.
He ignites a little fusion furnace and warms his hands before
it. Taking a power cable, he plugs it into Artoo's noselike
socket.

LUKE: Ready for some power? Okay. Let's see now. Put that in there.
There you go.

The droid whistles his appreciation. Luke then opens a
container of processed food and sits before the thermal
heater.

LUKE: (sighs) Now all I have to do is find this Yoda...if he even
exists.

Nervously, he looks around at the foreboding jungle.

LUKE: Still...there's something familiar about this place. I feel
like...I don't know...

STRANGE VOICE: Feel like what?

Luke jumps out of his skin. Artoo screeches in terror. The
young warrior grabs for his lightsaber as he spins around,
looking for the speaker. Mysteriously standing right in front
of Luke is a strange, bluish creature, not more than two feet
tall. The wizened little thing is dressed in rags. It motions
toward Luke's sword.

LUKE: (looking at the creature) Like we're being watched!

CREATURE: Away with your weapon! I mean you no harm.

After some hesitation, Luke puts away his weapon, although
he really doesn't understand why. Artoo watches with interest.

CREATURE: I am wondering, why are you here?

LUKE: I'm looking for someone.

CREATURE: Looking? Found someone, you have, I would say, hmmm?

The little creature laughs.

LUKE: (Trying to keep from smiling) Right.

CREATURE: Help you I can. Yes, mmmm.

LUKE: I don't think so. I'm looking for a great warrior.

CREATURE: Ahhh! A great warrior. (laughs and shakes his head) Wars not
make one great.

With the aid of a walking stick, the tiny stranger moves
over to one of the cases of supplies. He begins to rummage
around.
Artoo moves to the edge of the case -- standing almost eye
level to the creature who is carelessly handling the supplies
-- and squeaks his disapproval.
Their tiny visitor pick up the container of food Luke was
eating from and takes a bite.

LUKE: Put that down. Hey! That's my dinner.

The creature spits out the bite he has taken. He makes a
face.

CREATURE: How you get so big, eating food of this kind?

He flips the container in Luke's direction and reaches into
one of Luke's supply cases.

LUKE: Listen, friend, we didn't mean to land in that puddle, and if we
could get our ship out, we would, but we can't, so why don't you
just...

CREATURE: (teasing) Aww, cannot get your ship out?

The creature spots something of interest in Luke's case.
Luke loses patience and grabs the case away. The creature
retains his prize -- a tiny power lamp -- and examines it with
delight.

LUKE: Hey, you could have broken this. Don't do that. Ohhh...you're
making a mess. Hey, give me that!

CREATURE: (retreating with the lamp) Mine! Or I will help you not.

Clutching its treasure, the creature backs away from Luke,
drawing closer to Artoo. As Luke and the creature argue, one
of Artoo's little arms slowly moves out toward the power lamp,
completely unnoticed by the creature.

LUKE: I don't want your help. I want my lamp back. I'll need it to get
out of this slimy mudhole.

CREATURE: Mudhole? Slimy? My home this is.

Artoo grabs hold of the lamp and the two little figures are
immediately engaged in a tug-of-war over it.
Artoo beeps a few angry, "Give me thats."

CREATURE: Ah, ah, ah!

LUKE: Oh, Artoo, let him have it.

CREATURE: Mine! Mine!

LUKE: Artoo!

CREATURE: Mine!

The creature lets go with one hand and pokes Artoo lightly
with one finger. Artoo reacts with a startled squeal, and lets
go.

CREATURE: Mine!

LUKE: (fed up) Now will you move along, little fella? We're got a lot
of work to do.

CREATURE: No! No, no! Stay and help you, I will. (laughs) Find your
friend, hmm?

LUKE: I'm not looking for a friend, I'm looking for a Jedi Master.

CREATURE: Oohhh. Jedi Master. Yoda. You seek Yoda.

LUKE: You know him?

CREATURE: Mmm. Take you to him, I will. (laughs) Yes, yes. But now, we
must eat. Come. Good food. Come.

With that, the creature scurries out of the clearing,
laughing merrily. Luke stares after him. All he sees is the
faint light from the small power lamp moving through the fog.
Luke makes his decision and starts after the creature.

CREATURE: (in the distance) Come, come.

Artoo, very upset, whistles a blue streak of protest.

LUKE: Stay here and watch after the camp, Artoo.

Artoo beeps even more frantically. But as Luke disappears
from view, the worried little droid grows quieter, and utters
a soft electronic sigh.

INTERIOR: MILLENNIUM FALCON -- MAIN HOLD AREA

Threepio whistles and beeps a strange dialect into the
control panel in front of him. The control panel whistles back
a few mystifying beeps.

THREEPIO: Oh, where is Artoo when I need him?

Han enters the hold area and kneels on the floor near the
control box.

THREEPIO: Sir, I don't know where your ship learned to communicate,
but it has the most peculiar dialect. I believe, sir, it says that the
power coupling on the negative axis has been polarized. I'm afraid
you'll have to replace it.

HAN: Well, of course I'll have to replace it.

He hands a wire coil up to Chewie who is working near the
ceiling.

HAN: Here! And Chewie...

Chewie brings his head back through the trap door in the
ceiling and whines. Han glances back at Threepio, then speaks
quietly to Chewie so only he can hear.

HAN: (continued)...I think we'd better replace the negative power
coupling.

Leia finishes welding the valves she has been working on
and attempts to reengage the system by pulling a lever
attached to the valve. It doesn't budge. Han notices her
struggle, and moves to help her. She rebuffs him.

HAN: Hey, Your Worship, I'm only trying to help.

LEIA: (still struggling) Would you please stop calling me that?

Han hears a new tone in her voice. He watches her pull on
the lever.

HAN: Sure, Leia.

LEIA: Oh, you make it so difficult sometimes.

HAN: I do, I really do. You could be a little nicer, though. (he
watches her reaction) Come on, admit it. Sometimes you think I'm all
right.

She lets go of the lever and rubs her sore hand.

LEIA: Occasionally (a little smile, haltingly) maybe...when you aren't
acting like a scoundrel.

HAN: (laughs) Scoundrel? Scoundrel? I like the sound of that.

With that, Han takes her hand and starts to massage it.

LEIA: Stop that.

HAN: Stop what?

Leia is flushes, confused.

LEIA: Stop that! My hands are dirty.

HAN: My hands are dirty, too. What are you afraid of?

LEIA: (looking right into his eyes) Afraid?

Han looks at her with a piercing look. He's never looked
more handsome, more dashing, more confident. He reaches out
slowly and takes Leia's hand again from where it is resting
on a console. He draws it toward him.

HAN: You're trembling.

LEIA: I'm not trembling.

Then with an irresistible combination of physical strength
and emotional power, the space pirate begins to draw Leia
toward him...very slowly.

HAN: You like me because I'm a scoundrel. There aren't enough
scoundrels in your life.

Leia is now very close to Han and as she speaks, her voice
becomes an excited whisper, a tone completely in opposition to
her words.

LEIA: I happen to like nice men.

HAN: I'm a nice man.

LEIA: No, you're not. You're...

He kisses her now, with slow, hot lips. He takes his time,
as though he had forever, bending her body backward. She has
never been kissed like this before, and it almost makes her
faint. When he stops, she regains her breath and tries to work
up some indignation, but finds it hard to talk.
Suddenly, Threepio appears in the doorway, speaking
excitedly.

THREEPIO: Sir, sir! I've isolated the reverse power flux coupling.

Han turns slowly, icily, from their embrace.

HAN: Thank you. Thank you very much.

THREEPIO: Oh, you're perfectly welcome, sir.

The moment spoiled, Han marches out after Threepio.

EXTERIOR: SPACE -- ASTEROID FIELD

The Imperial fleet moves through the asteroid-filled void,
intently seeking its prey.

INTERIOR: VADER'S STAR DESTROYER -- BRIDGE

Asteroids collide, creating a fireworks display outside the
bridge window. Darth Vader stands, staring out the window
above the control deck. Then slowly turns toward the bridge.
Before him are the hologram images of twenty battleship
commanders. One of these images, the commander of a ship that
has just exploded, is fading away quickly. Another image, in
the center and a little apart from the others, is faded and
continually disrupted by static. It is the image of Captain
Needa, commander of the Star Destroyer most hotly on the tail
of the Millennium Falcon. Admiral Piett and an aide stand
behind the Dark Lord.

NEEDA: (in hologram)...and that, Lord Vader, was the last time they
appeared in any of our scopes. Considering the amount of damage we've
sustained, they must have been destroyed.

VADER: No, Captain, they're alive. I want every ship available to
sweep the asteroid field until they are found.

The Imperial star captains fade out one by one as Vader
turns to Admiral Piett.

PIETT: Lord Vader.

VADER: Yes, Admiral, what is it?

The admiral is scared, his face white as a sheet.

PIETT: The Emperor commands you make contact with him.

VADER: Move the ship out of the asteroid field so that we can send a
clear transmission.

PIETT: Yes, my lord.

EXTERIOR: ASTEROID FIELD -- VADER'S STAR DESTROYER

Vader's Imperial Star Destroyer moves against the vast sea
of stars away from the rest of the fleet.

INTERIOR: VADER'S STAR DESTROYER -- VADER'S CHAMBER

The Dark Lord, Darth Vader, is alone in his chamber. A
strange sound enters the room and a light begins to play
across Vader's black figure. He looks up and bows quickly.
A twelve-foot hologram of the Galactic Emperor materializes
before Vader. The Emperor's dark robes and monk's hood are
reminiscent of the cloak worn by Ben Kenobi. His voice is even
deeper and more frightening than Vader's.

VADER: What is thy bidding, my master?

EMPEROR: There is a great disturbance in the Force.

VADER: I have felt it.

EMPEROR: We have a new enemy -- Luke Skywalker.

VADER: Yes, my master.

EMPEROR: He could destroy us.

VADER: He's just a boy. Obi-Wan can no longer help him.

EMPEROR: The Force is strong with him. The son of Skywalker must not
become a Jedi.

VADER: If he could be turned, he would become a powerful ally.

EMPEROR: Yes. Yes. He would be a great asset. Can it be done?

VADER: He will join us or die, my master.

Vader kneels. The supreme Emperor passes a hand over the
crouched Lord of the Sith and fades away.

EXTERIOR: DAGOBAH -- CREATURE'S HOUSE -- NIGHT

A heavy downpour of rain pounds through the gnarled trees.
A strange baroque mud house sits on a moss-covered knoll on
the edge of a small lagoon. The small, gnomish structure
radiates a warm glow from its thick glass windows. As rain
tap-dances a merry tune on Artoo's head, the stubby little
droid rises up on his tip-toes to peek into one of the glowing
portals.

INTERIOR: CREATURE'S HOUSE

Artoo, peeking in the window, sees the inside of the house
-- a very plain, but cozy dwelling. Everything is in the same
small scale as the creature. The only thing out of place in
the miniature room is Luke, whose height makes the four-foot
ceiling seem even lower. He sits cross-legged on the floor of
the living room.
The creature is in an adjoining area -- his little kitchen
-- cooking up an incredible meal. The stove is a steaming
hodgepodge of pots and pans. The wizened little host scurries
about chopping this, shredding that, and showering everything
with exotic herbs and spices. He rushes back and forth putting
platters on the table in front of Luke, who watches the
creature impatiently.

LUKE: Look, I'm sure it's delicious. I just don't understand why we
can't see Yoda now.

CREATURE: Patience! For the Jedi it is time to eat as well. Eat, eat.
Hot. Good food, hm? Good, hmm?

Moving with some difficulty in the cramped quarters, Luke
sits down near the fire and serves himself from the pot.
Tasting the unfamiliar concoction, he is pleasantly surprised.

LUKE: How far away is Yoda? Will it take us long to get there?

CREATURE: Not far. Yoda not far. Patience. Soon you will be with him.
(tasting food from the pot) Rootleaf, I cook. Why wish you become
Jedi? Hm?

LUKE: Mostly because of my father, I guess.

CREATURE: Ah, your father. Powerful Jedi was he, powerful Jedi, mmm.

LUKE: (a little angry) Oh, come on. How could you know my father? You
don't even know who I am. (fed up) Oh, I don't even know what I'm
doing here. We're wasting our time.

The creature turns away from Luke and speaks to a third
party.

CREATURE: (irritated) I cannot teach him. The boy has no patience.

Luke's head spins in the direction the creature faces. But
there is no one there. The boy is bewildered, but it gradually
dawns on him that the little creature is Yoda, the Jedi
Master, and that he is speaking with Ben.

BEN'S VOICE: He will learn patience.

YODA: Hmmm. Much anger in him, like his father.

BEN'S VOICE: Was I any different when you taught me?

YODA: Hah. He is not ready.

LUKE: Yoda! I am ready. I...Ben! I can be a Jedi. Ben, tell him I'm
ready.

Trying to see Ben, Luke starts to get up but hits his head
on the low ceiling.

YODA: Ready, are you? What know you of ready? For eight hundred years
have I trained Jedi. My own counsel will I keep on who is to be
trained! A Jedi must have the deepest commitment, the most serious
mind. (to the invisible Ben, indicating Luke) This one a long time
have I watched. Never his mind on where he was. Hmm? What he was
doing. Hmph. Adventure. Heh! Excitement. Heh! A Jedi craves not these
things. (turning to Luke) You are reckless!

Luke looks down. He knows it is true.

BEN'S VOICE: So was I, if you'll remember.

YODA: He is too old. Yes, too old to begin the training.

Luke thinks he detects a subtle softening in Yoda's voice.

LUKE: But I've learned so much.

Yoda turns his piercing gaze on Luke, as though the Jedi
Master's huge eyes could somehow determine how much the boy
had learned. After a long moment, the little Jedi turns toward
where he alone sees Ben.

YODA: (sighs) Will he finished what he begins?

LUKE: I won't fail you -- I'm not afraid.

YODA: (turns slowly toward him) Oh, you will be. You will be.

EXTERIOR: SPACE -- STAR DESTROYERS -- ASTEROID FIELD

The Imperial fleet around Vader's ship is surrounded by the
asteroid storm. Asteroids big and small pelt the vast
exteriors of the menacing ships. One of the smaller Imperial
vessels is hit by a huge asteroid and explodes in a brilliant
flash of light.

INTERIOR: ASTEROID CAVE -- MILLENNIUM FALCON -- COCKPIT

The cockpit is quiet and lit only by the indicator lights
on the control panel. Princess Leia sits in the pilot's seat.
She runs her hand across the control panel as she thinks of
Han and the confusion he has created within her. Suddenly,
something outside the cockpit window catches her eye. The
reflection of the panel lights obscures her vision until a
soft suctionlike cup attaches itself to the windscreen. Leia
moves closer to see what it might be. Large, yellow eyes flash
open and stare back at her. Startled, she jumps back into her
seat, her heart pounding. There is a scurry of feet and a loud
screech, and in an instant the eyes are gone. The young
princess catches her breath, jumps out of her chair, and races
from the cockpit.

INTERIOR: ASTEROID CAVE -- MILLENNIUM FALCON -- HOLD AREA

The lights go bright for a second then out again. Threepio
and Chewbacca watch as Han finishes with some wires.

THREEPIO: Sir, if I may venture an opinion...

HAN: I'm not really interested in your opinion, Threepio.

Leia rushes into the cabin just as Han drops the final
floor panel into place.

LEIA: (out of breath) There's something out there.

HAN: Where?

LEIA: Outside, in the cave.

As she speaks, there comes a sharp banging on the hull.
Chewie looks up and barks anxiously.

THREEPIO: There it is. Listen! Listen!

HAN: I'm going out there.

LEIA: Are you crazy?!

HAN: I just got this bucket back together. I'm not going to let
something tear it apart.

He and Chewie grab their breath masks off a rack and hurry
out. Leia follows.

LEIA: Then I'm going with you.

THREEPIO: I think it might be better if I stay here and guard the
ship. (hears another mysterious noise) Oh, no.

EXTERIOR: ASTEROID CAVE -- MILLENNIUM FALCON

It is very dark inside the huge asteroid cave, too dark to
see what is attacking the ship.
Leia stamps her foot on the floor of the cave.

LEIA: This ground sure feels strange. It doesn't feel like rock at
all.

Han kneels and studies the ground, then attempts to study
the outline of the cave.

HAN: There's an awful lot of moisture in here.

LEIA: I don't know. I have a bad feeling about this.

HAN: Yeah.

Chewie barks through his face mask, and points toward the
ship's cockpit. A five-foot-long shape can be seen moving
across the top of the Falcon. The leathery creature lets out a
screech as Han blasts it with a laser bolt.

HAN: (to Leia) Watch out!

The black shape tumbles off the spaceship and onto the
ground in front of the princess. Han bends down to investigate
the dead creature.

HAN: Yeah, that's what I thought. Mynock. Chewie, check the rest of
the ship, make sure there aren't any more attached. They're chewing on
the power cables.

LEIA: Mynocks?

HAN: Go on inside. We'll clean them off if there are any more.

Just then, a swarm of the ugly creatures swoops through the
air. Leia puts her arms over her head to protect herself as
she runs toward the ship. Chewie shoos another Mynock away
with his blaster. Several of the batlike creatures flap their
wings loudly against the cockpit window of the Falcon. Inside,
Threepio shudders at their presence.

THREEPIO: Ohhh! Go away! Go away! Beastly thing. Shoo! Shoo!

Han looks around the strange, dripping cave.

HAN: Wait a minute...

He unholsters his blaster and fires at the far side of the
huge cave. The cavern begins to shake and the ground starts to
buckle.
Chewie barks and moves for the ship, followed closely by
Leia and Han. The large wings of the Mynocks flap past them as
they protect their faces and run up the platform.

INTERIOR: ASTEROID CAVE -- MILLENNIUM FALCON -- ENTRY AREA

As soon as Han and Leia are on board, Chewie closes the
main hatch. The ship continues to shake and heave.

HAN: All right, Chewie, let's get out of here!

The Wookiee heads for the cockpit as Han, followed by
Threepio, rushes to the hold area and checks the scopes on the
control panel. Leia hurries after.

LEIA: The Empire is still out there. I don't think it's wise to...

Han rushes past her and heads for the cockpit.

HAN: (interrupting) No time to discuss this as a committee.

And with that he is gone. The main engines of the Falcon
begin to whine. Leia races after him, bouncing around in the
shaking ship.

LEIA: (angry) I am not a committee!

INTERIOR: ASTEROID CAVE -- MILLENNIUM FALCON -- COCKPIT

Han is already in the pilot's seat pulling back on the
throttle. The cave-quake has greatly diminished.

LEIA: You can't make the jump to light-speed in this asteroid field...

HAN: Sit down, sweetheart. We're taking off!

As the ship begins to move forward, Chewie barks. He
notices something out the window ahead. Threepio sees it too.

THREEPIO: Look!

HAN: I see it, I see it.

Suddenly, a row of jagged white stalagmites and stalactites
can be seen surrounding the entrance. And as the Falcon moves
forward, the entrance to the cave grows ever smaller. Han
pulls hard on the throttle, sending his ship surging forward.

THREEPIO: We're doomed!

LEIA: The cave is collapsing.

HAN: This is no cave.

LEIA: What?

Leia's mouth drops open . She sees that the rocks of the
cave entrance are not rocks at all, but giant teeth, quickly
closing around the tiny ship. Chewie howls.

INTERIOR: SPACE SLUG MOUTH

The Millennium Falcon, zooming through the monster's mouth,
rolls on its side and barely makes it between two of the
gigantic white teeth before the huge jaws slams closed.

EXTERIOR: CAVE ENTRANCE -- GIANT ASTEROID

The enormous space slug moves its head out of the cave as
the Falcon flies out of its mouth. The monster tilts its head,
watching the starship fly away.

EXTERIOR: MILLENNIUM FALCON -- GIANT ASTEROID

The Falcon races out of the asteroid crater and into the
deadly rain of the asteroid storm.

EXTERIOR: DAGOBAH -- DAY

With Yoda strapped to his back, Luke climbs up one of the
many thick vines that grow in the swamp. Panting heavily, he
continues his course -- climbing, flipping through the air,
jumping over roots, and racing in and out of the heavy ground
fog.

YODA: Run! Yes. A Jedi's strength flows from the Force. But beware of
the dark side. Anger...fear...aggression. The dark side of the Force
are they. Easily they flow, quick to join you in a fight. If once you
start down the dark path, forever will it dominate your destiny,
consume you it will, as it did Obi-Wan's apprentice.

LUKE: Vader. Is the dark side stronger?

YODA: No...no...no. Quicker, easier, more seductive.

LUKE: But how am I to know the good side from the bad?

YODA: You will know. When you are calm, at peace. Passive. A Jedi uses
the Force for knowledge and defense, never for attack.

LUKE: But tell me why I can't...

YODA: (interrupting) No, no, there is no why. Nothing more will I
teach you today. Clear your mind of questions. Mmm. Mmmmmm.

Artoo beeps in the distance as Luke lets Yoda down to the
ground. Breathing heavily, he takes his shirt from a nearby
tree branch and pulls it on.
He turns to see a huge, dead, black tree, its base
surrounded by a few feet of water. Giant, twisted roots form a
dark and sinister cave on one side. Luke stares at the tree,
trembling.

LUKE: There's something not right here.

Yoda sits on a large root, poking his Gimer Stick into the
dirt.

LUKE: I feel cold, death.

YODA: That place...is strong with the dark side of the Force. A domain
of evil it is. In you must go.

LUKE: What's in there?

YODA: Only what you take with you.

Luke looks warily between the tree and Yoda. He starts to
strap on his weapon belt.

YODA: Your weapons...you will not need them.

Luke gives the tree a long look, than shakes his head "no."
Yoda shrugs. Luke reaches up to brush aside some hanging vines
and enters the tree.

INTERIOR: DAGOBAH -- TREE CAVE

Luke moves into the almost total darkness of the wet and
slimy cave. The youth can barely make out the edge of the
passage. Holding his lit saber before him, he sees a lizard
crawling up the side of the cave and a snake wrapped around
the branches of a tree. Luke draws a deep breath, then pushes
deeper into the cave.
The space widens around him, but he feels that rather than
sees it. His sword casts the only light as he peers into the
darkness. It is very quiet here.
Then, a loud hiss! Darth Vader appears across the
blackness, illuminated by his own just-ignited laser sword.
Immediately, he charges Luke, saber held high. He is upon the
youth in seconds, but Luke sidesteps perfectly and slashes at
Vader with his sword.
Vader is decapitated. His helmet-encased head flies from
his shoulders as his body disappears into the darkness. The
metallic banging of the helmet fills the cave as Vader's head
spins and bounces, smashes on the floor, and finally stops.
For an instant it rests on the floor, then it cracks
vertically. The black helmet and breath mask fall away to
reveal...Luke's head.
Across the space, the standing Luke gasps at the sight,
wide-eyed in terror.
The decapitated head fades away, as in a vision.

EXTERIOR: DAGOBAH -- CAVE -- DUSK

Meanwhile, Yoda sits on the root, calmly leaning on his
Gimer Stick.

EXTERIOR: SPACE -- VADER'S STAR DESTROYER

Vader's Imperial Star Destroyer moves through space,
guarded by its convoy of TIE fighters.

INTERIOR: VADER'S STAR DESTROYER -- BRIDGE -- CONTROL DECK

Vader stands in the back control area of his ship's bridge
with a motley group of men and creatures. Admiral Piett and
two controllers stand at the front of the bridge and watch the
group with scorn.

PIETT: Bounty hunters. We don't need that scum.

FIRST CONTROLLER: Yes, sir.

PIETT: Those Rebels won't escape us.

A second controller interrupts.

SECOND CONTROLLER: Sir, we have a priority signal from the Star
Destroyer Avenger.

PIETT: Right.

The group standing before Vader is a bizarre array of
galactic fortune hunters: There is Bossk, a slimy, tentacled
monster with two huge, bloodshot eyes in a soft baggy face;
Zuckuss and Dengar, two battle-scarred, mangy human types;
IG-88, a battered, tarnished chrome war droid; and Boba Fett,
a man in a weapon-covered armored space suit.

VADER: ...there will be a substantial reward for the one who finds
the Millennium Falcon. You are free to use any methods necessary, but
I want them alive. No disintegrations.

BOBA FETT: As you wish.

At that moment, Admiral Piett approaches Vader in a rush of
excitement.

PIETT: Lord Vader! My lord, we have them.

EXTERIOR: IMPERIAL STAR DESTROYER, AVENGER -- ASTEROID BELT

The Millennium Falcon speeds through deep space, closely
followed by a firing Imperial Star Destroyer. A large asteroid
about the same size as the Falcon tumbles rapidly toward the
starship. The tiny Falcon banks to avoid the giant asteroid as
smaller rocks pelt its surface. Then the small craft roars
under the asteroid which explodes harmlessly on the hull of
the vast Star Destroyer.

INTERIOR: MILLENNIUM FALCON -- COCKPIT

The ship shudders as flak explodes near the cockpit window.
Threepio checks a tracking scope an the side control panel
while Leia watches tensely out the window.

THREEPIO: Oh, thank goodness we're coming out of the asteroid field.

Chewie barks excitedly as the rain of asteroids begins to
subside. A bolt from the Star Destroyer sets up a fiery
explosion on the back side of the Falcon, causing it to lurch
to one side.

EXTERIOR: MILLENNIUM FALCON -- STAR DESTROYER, AVENGER -- ASTEROID FIELD

The Falcon is hit hard by another bolt from the Star
Destroyer which creates a huge explosion near the cockpit of
the smaller ship. The Falcon tilts steeply, then rights
itself.

INTERIOR: MILLENNIUM FALCON -- COCKPIT

Han corrects the angle of his ship.

HAN: Let's get out of here. Ready for light-speed? One...two...three!

Han pulls back on the hyperspace throttle and -- nothing
happens. Flak bursts continue to rock the ship.

HAN: (frantic) It's not fair!

Chewie is very angry and starts to growl and bark at his
friend and captain. Again, Han desperately pulls back on the
throttle.

HAN: The transfer circuits are working. It's not my fault!

Chewie puts his head in his hands, whining.

LEIA: (almost expecting it) No light-speed?

HAN: It's not my fault.

THREEPIO: Sir, we just lost the main rear deflector shield. One more
direct hit on the back quarter and we're done for.

Han pauses for a moment, makes a decision, and pulls back
on a lever.

HAN: Turn her around.

Chewie barks in puzzlement.

HAN: I said turn her around! I'm going to put all power in the front
shield.

LEIA: You're going to attack them?!

THREEPIO: Sir, the odds of surviving a direct assault on an Imperial
Star Destroyer...

LEIA: Shut up!

EXTERIOR: SPACE -- MILLENNIUM FALCON -- ASTEROID FIELD

The Falcon banks, makes a steep, twisting turn. In the
next moment it is racing toward the Star Destroyer, looking
very small against the massive surface of the Imperial ship.
As it moves across the surface of the Star Destroyer, the
Falcon bobs and weaves to avoid the numerous flak bursts.

INTERIOR: STAR DESTROYER, AVENGER -- BRIDGE

The tiny Falcon heads directly for the Avenger's bridge.
The Imperials stationed there are stunned to see the small
spaceship racing low across the hull, headed directly at the
huge windows of the bridge area. Alarms go off everywhere. The
Destroyer's commander, Captain Needa, can scarcely believe his
eyes.

NEEDA: They're moving to attack position. Shields up!

Needa and his men duck as the Falcon nears the bridge
window. At the last minute, the Falcon veers off and out of
sight. All is quiet.

NEEDA: Track them,. They may come around for another pass.

TRACKING OFFICER: Captain Needa, the ship no longer appears on our
scopes.

NEEDA: They can't have disappeared. No ship that small has a cloaking
device.

TRACKING OFFICER: Well, there's no trace of them, sir.

COMMUNICATIONS OFFICER: Captain, Lord Vader demands an update on the
pursuit.

NEEDA: (drawing a breath) Get a shuttle ready. I shall assume full
responsibility for losing them, and apologize to Lord Vader.
Meanwhile, continue to scan the area.

COMMUNICATIONS OFFICER: Yes, Captain Needa.

EXTERIOR: DAGOBAH -- BOG -- DAY

Luke's face is upside-down and showing enormous strain. He
stands on his hands, with Yoda perched on his feet. Opposite
Luke and Yoda are two rocks the size of bowling balls. Luke
stares at the rocks and concentrates. One of the rocks lifts
from the ground and floats up to rest on the other.

YODA: Use the Force. Yes...

Yoda taps Luke's leg. Quickly, Luke lifts one hand from the
ground. His body wavers, but he maintains his balance. Artoo,
standing nearby, is whistling and beeping frantically.

YODA: Now...the stone. Feel it.

Luke concentrates on trying to lift the top rock. It rises
a few feet, shaking under the strain. But, distracted by
Artoo's frantic beeping, Luke loses his balance and finally
collapses. Yoda jumps clear.

YODA: Concentrate!

Annoyed at the disturbance, Luke looks over at Artoo, who
is rocking urgently back and forth in front of him.
Artoo waddles closer to Luke, chirping wildly, then scoots
over the edge of the swamp. Catching on, Luke rushes to the
water's edge. The X-wing fighter has sunk, and only the tip of
its nose shows above the lake's surface.

LUKE: Oh, no. We'll never get it out now.

Yoda stamps his foot in irritation.

YODA: So certain are you. Always with you it cannot be done. Hear you
nothing that I say?

Luke looks uncertainly out at the ship.

LUKE: Master, moving stones around is one thing. This is totally
different.

YODA: No! No different! Only different in your mind. You must unlearn
what you have learned.

LUKE: (focusing, quietly) All right, I'll give it a try.

YODA: No! Try not. Do. Or do not. There is no try.

Luke closes his eyes and concentrates on thinking the ship
out.
Slowly, the X-wing's nose begins to rise above the water.
It hovers for a moment and then slides back, disappearing once
again.

LUKE: (panting heavily) I can't. It's too big.

YODA: Size matters not. Look at me. Judge me by my size, do you? Hm?
Mmmm.

Luke shakes his head.

YODA: And well you should not. For my ally in the Force. And a
powerful ally it is. Life creates it, makes it grow. It's energy
surrounds us and binds us. Luminous beings are we...(Yoda pinches
Luke's shoulder)...not this crude matter. (a sweeping gesture) You must
feel the Force around you. (gesturing) Here, between you...me...the
tree...the rock...everywhere! Yes, even between this land and that
ship!

LUKE: (discouraged) You want the impossible.

Quietly Yoda turns toward the X-wing fighter. With his eyes
closed and his head bowed, he raises his arm and points at the
ship.
Soon, the fighter rises above the water and moves forward
as Artoo beeps in terror and scoots away.
The entire X-wing moves majestically, surely, toward the
shore. Yoda stands on a tree root and guides the fighter
carefully down toward the beach.
Luke stares in astonishment as the fighter settles down
onto the shore. He walks toward Yoda.

LUKE: I don't...I don't believe it.

YODA: That is why you fail.

Luke shakes his head, bewildered.

EXTERIOR: SPACE -- IMPERIAL FLEET

The fleet around Vader's Star Destroyer now includes
Needa's Star Destroyer, the Avenger.

INTERIOR: VADER'S STAR DESTROYER -- BRIDGE

VADER: Apology accepted, Captain Needa.

Clutching desperately at his throat, Captain Needa slumps
down, then falls over on his back, at the feet of Darth Vader.
Two stormtroopers pick up the lifeless body and carry it
quickly away as Admiral Piett and two of his captains hurry up
to the Dark Lord.

PIETT: Lord Vader, our ships have completed their scan of the area and
found nothing. If the Millennium Falcon went into light-speed, it'll
be on the other side of the galaxy by now.

VADER: Alert all commands. Calculate every possible destination along
their last know trajectory.

PIETT: Yes, my lord. We'll find them.

VADER: Don't fail me again, Admiral.

Vader exits as the admiral turns to an aide, a little more
uneasy than when he arrived.

PIETT: Alert all commands. Deploy the fleet.

EXTERIOR: SPACE -- IMPERIAL FLEET

Vader's ship moves away, flanked by its fleet of smaller
ships. the Avenger glides off into space in the opposite
direction. No one on that ship or on Vader's is aware that,
clinging to the side of the Avenger, is the pirateship, the
Millennium Falcon.

INTERIOR: MILLENNIUM FALCON -- COCKPIT

THREEPIO: Captain Solo, this time you have gone too far. (Chewie
growls) No, I will not be quiet, Chewbacca. Why doesn't anyone listen
to me?

HAN: (to Chewie) The fleet is beginning to break up. Go back and stand
by the manual release for the landing claw.

Chewie barks, struggles from his seat, and climbs out of
the cabin.

THREEPIO: I really don't see how thats going to help. Surrender is a
perfectly acceptable alternative in extreme circumstances. The Empire
may be gracious enough...

Leia reaches over and shuts off Threepio, mid-sentence.

HAN: Thank you.

LEIA: What did you have in mind for your next move?

HAN: Well, if they follow standard Imperial procedure, they'll dump
their garbage before they go to light-speed, then we just float away.

LEIA: With the rest of the garbage. Then what?

HAN: Then we've got to find a safe port somewhere around here. Got any
ideas?

LEIA: No. Where are we?

HAN: The Anoat system.

LEIA: Anoat system. There's not much there.

HAN: No. Well, wait. This is interesting. Lando.

He points to a computer mapscreen on the control panel.
Leia slips out of her chair and moves next to the handsome
pilot. Small light points representing several systems flash
by on the computer screen.

LEIA: Lando system?

HAN: Lando's not a system, he's a man. Lando Calrissian. He's a card
player, gambler, scoundrel. You'd like him.

LEIA: Thanks.

HAN: Bespin. It's pretty far, but I think we can make it.

LEIA: (reading from the computer) A mining colony?

HAN: Yeah, a Tibanna gas mine. Lando conned somebody out of it. We go
back a long way, Lando and me.

LEIA: Can you trust him?

HAN: No. But he has no love for the Empire, I can tell you that.

Chewie barks over the intercom. Han quickly changes his
readouts and stretches to look out the cockpit window.

HAN: (into intercom) Here we go, Chewie. Stand by. Detach!

Han leans back in his chair and gives Leia an invisible
smile. She thinks for a moment, shakes her head; a grin creeps
across her face and she gives him a quick kiss.

LEIA: You do have your moments. Not many, but you have them.

EXTERIOR: SPACE -- IMPERIAL STAR DESTROYER

As the Avenger Star Destroyer moves slowly into space, the
hatch on its underbelly opens, sending a trail of junk behind
it. Hidden among the refuse, the Falcon tumbles away. In the
next moment, the Avenger roars off into hyperspace. The
Falcon's engines are ignited, and it races off into the
distance. Amidst the slowly drifting junk, Boba Fett's ship
appears and moves after the Falcon.

EXTERIOR: DAGOBAH -- BOG -- CLEARING -- DAY

In the clearing behind Yoda's house, Luke again stands
upside-down, but his face shows less strain and more
concentration than before. Yoda sits on the ground below the
young warrior. On the other side of the clearing, two
equipment cases slowly rise into the air. Nearby Artoo
watches, humming to himself, when suddenly he, too, rises into
the air. His little legs kick desperately and his head turns
frantically, looking for help.

YODA: Concentrate...feel the Force flow. Yes. Good. Calm, yes. Through
the Force, things you will see. Other places. The future...the past.
Old friends long gone.

Luke suddenly becomes distressed.

LUKE: Han! Leia!

The two packing boxes and Artoo fall to the ground with a
crash, then Luke himself tumbles over.

YODA: (shaking his head) Hmm. Control, control. You must learn control.

LUKE: I saw...I saw a city in the clouds.

YODA: Mmm. Friends you have there.

LUKE: They were in pain.

YODA: It is the future you see.

LUKE: Future? Will they die?

Yoda closes his eyes and lowers his head.

YODA: Difficult to see. Always in motion is the future.

LUKE: I've got to go to them.

YODA: Decide you must how to serve them best. If you leave now, help
them you could. But you would destroy all for which they have fought
and suffered.

Luke is stopped cold by Yoda's words. Gloom shrouds him as
he nods his head sadly.

EXTERIOR: BESPIN SYSTEM -- MILLENNIUM FALCON -- DAWN

The powerful pirate starship blasts through space as it
heads toward the soft pink planet of Bespin.

EXTERIOR: BESPIN SURFACE -- MILLENNIUM FALCON

It is down on the gaseous planet. Huge billowing clouds
form a canyon as the ship banks around them, heading toward
the system's Cloud City.
Suddenly, two twin-pod cloud cars appear and move toward
the Falcon. The cloud cars draw up alongside the starship.

INTERIOR: MILLENNIUM FALCON -- COCKPIT

One of the cloud cars opens fire on the Falcon, its flak
rocking the ship. Chewie barks his concern.

HAN: (into transmitter) No, I don't have a landing permit. I'm trying
to reach Lando Calrissian.

More flak bursts outside the cockpit window and rattles the
ship's interior. Leia looks worried.

HAN: (into transmitter) Whoa! Wait a minute! Let me explain.

INTERCOM VOICE: You will not deviate from your present course.

THREEPIO: Rather touchy, aren't they?

LEIA: I thought you knew this person.

Chewie barks and growls at his boss.

HAN: (to Chewie) Well, that was a long time ago. I'm sure he's
forgotten about that.

INTERCOM VOICE: Permission granted to land on Platform
Three-two-seven.

HAN: (into transmitter) Thank you.

Angry, Han snaps off the intercom. Chewie looks at him and
grunts. Han turns to the worried princess and her droid.

HAN: There's nothing to worry about. We go way back, Lando and me.

Leia doesn't look convinced.

LEIA: Who's worried?

EXTERIOR: CLOUD CITY -- MILLENNIUM FALCON -- CLOUD CARS

The clouds part to reveal a full view of the city as it
bobs in and out of the cloud surface. The cloud cars and the
Falcon head for the gleaming white metropolis.

EXTERIOR: CLOUD CITY -- LANDING PLATFORM -- MILLENNIUM FALCON

With the cloud cars still guarding it, the Falcon lands on
one of the Cloud City's platforms.

EXTERIOR: LANDING PLATFORM -- DOOR OF MILLENNIUM FALCON

Han and Leia stand at the open door, armed. Behind them,
Chewie, also armed, surveys the scene warily.

THREEPIO: Oh. No one to meet us.

LEIA: I don't like this.

HAN: Well, what would you like?

THREEPIO: Well, they did let us land.

HAN: Look, don't worry. Everything's going to be fine. Trust me.

INTERIOR: CLOUD CITY -- CORRIDOR -- DAY

Lando Calrissian, a suave, dashing black man in his
thirties, leads a group of aides and some Cloud City guard
rapidly toward the landing platform. The group, like the other
citizens of the city, is a motley collection of aliens,
droids, and humans of all descriptions. Lando has a grim
expression on his face as he moves onto the landing platform.

EXTERIOR: LANDING PLATFORM -- DOOR OF MILLENNIUM FALCON

HAN: See? My friend. (to Chewie) Keep your eyes open, okay?

Chewie growls as Han walks down the ramp. Lando and his men
head across the bridge to meet the space pirate.

EXTERIOR: CLOUD CITY -- LANDING PLATFORM

Lando stops ten feet from Han. The two men eye each other
carefully. Lando shakes his head.

LANDO: Why, you slimy, double-crossing, no-good swindler! You've got a
lot of guts coming here, after what you pulled.

Han points to himself innocently, mouthing, "Me?"
Lando moves threateningly toward Han. Suddenly, he throws
his arms around his startled, long-lost friend and embraces
him.

LANDO: (laughs) How you doing, you old pirate? So good to see you! I
never thought I'd catch up with you again. Where you been?

The two old friends embrace, laughing and chuckling.

EXTERIOR: LANDING PLATFORM -- DOOR OF MILLENNIUM FALCON.

THREEPIO: Well, he seems very friendly.

LEIA: (wary) Yes...very friendly.

EXTERIOR: CLOUD CITY -- LANDING PLATFORM

LANDO: What are you doing here?

HAN: (gestures toward the Falcon) Ahh...repairs. I thought you could
help me out.

LANDO: (in mock panic) What have you done to my ship?

HAN: Your ship? Hey, remember, you lost her to me fair and square.

Chewie growls a reserved greeting. Lando suddenly notices
the princess and smiles.

LANDO: Hello. What have we here? Welcome. I'm Lando Calrissian. I'm
the administrator of this facility. and who might you be?

LEIA: Leia.

LANDO: Welcome, Leia.

Lando bows before Leia and kisses her hand.

HAN: All right, all right, you old smoothie.

Han takes Leia by the hand and steers her away from Lando.

THREEPIO: Hello, sir. I am See-Threepio, human-cyborg relations. My
facilities are at your...

Before Threepio can finish his self-introduction, Lando has
turned to follow Han and Leia, who are walking toward the
city.

THREEPIO: Well, really!

Lando, his aide, Lobot, and Han lead the way across the
bridge, followed by Threepio, Chewie and Leia.

LANDO: What's wrong with the Falcon?

HAN: Hyperdrive.

LANDO: I'll get my people to work on it.

HAN: Good.

Lando turns to Leia.

LANDO: You know, that ship saved my life quite a few times. She's the
fastest hunk of junk in the galaxy.

INTERIOR: CLOUD CITY -- CORRIDOR

The group has crossed the narrow bridge and entered the
city. They walk down the lovely Art Deco passageway, rounding
several corners and passing many small plazas as they go.
Threepio lags a bit behind.

HAN: How's the gas mine? Is it paying off for you?

LANDO: Oh, not as well as I'd like. We're a small outpost and not very
self-sufficient. And I've had supply problems of every kind. I've had
labor difficulties...(catches Han grinning at him) What's so funny?

HAN: You. Listen to you -- you sound like a businessman, a responsible
leader. Who'd have thought that, huh?

Lando is reflective. He looks at Han a moment.

LANDO: You know, seeing you sure brings back a few things.

HAN: Yeah.

LANDO: (shakes his head) Yeah, I'm responsible these days. It's the
price you pay for being successful.

Han and Lando laugh together, and the group moves on
through the corridor.
The lagging Threepio passes a Threepio-type silver droid
who is coming out of a door.

THREEPIO: Oh! Nice to see a familiar face.

SECOND THREEPIO: (mumbles) E chu ta!

THREEPIO: How rude!

Threepio stops, watching the silver droid move away. Then
he hears the muffled beeping and whistling of an R2 unit
coming from within the room.

INTERIOR: CLOUD CITY -- ANTEROOM

Curious, Threepio enters the room.

THREEPIO: That sounds like an R2 unit in there. I wonder if...

Threepio walks through the doorway to the main room. He
looks in.

THREEPIO: Hello? How interesting. Oh, my.

MAN'S VOICE: (from within) Who are you?

THREEPIO: Oh, I'm terribly sorry. I...I didn't mean to intrude. No,
no, please don't get up. No!

A laser bolt to Threepio's chest sends him flying in twenty
directions. Smoldering mechanical arms and legs bounce off the
walls as the door whooshes closed behind him.

INTERIOR: CLOUD CITY -- CORRIDOR

Lando, Han, and Leia continue down the corridor unaware of
Threepio's dreadful accident. Chewbacca glances around, sniffs
the air, but shrugs his shoulders and follows the group.

EXTERIOR: DAGOBAH -- BOG -- DUSK

In the bright lights of the fighter, Luke loads a heavy
case into the belly of the ship. Artoo sits on top of the
X-wing, settling down into his cubbyhole. Yoda stands nearby
on a log.

YODA: Luke! You must complete the training.

LUKE: I can't keep the vision out of my head. They're my friends. I've
got to help them.

YODA: You must not go!

LUKE: But Han and Leia will die if I don't.

BEN'S VOICE: You don't know that.

Luke looks toward the voice in amazement. Ben has
materialized as a real, slightly shimmering image near Yoda.
The power of his presence stops Luke.

BEN: Even Yoda cannot see their fate.

LUKE: But I can help them! I feel the Force!

BEN: But you cannot control it. This is a dangerous time for you, when
you will be tempted by the dark side of the Force.

YODA: Yes, yes. To Obi-Wan you listen. The cave. Remember your failure
at the cave!

LUKE: But I've learned so much since then. Master Yoda, I promise to
return and finish what I've begun. You have my word.

BEN: It is you and your abilities the Emperor wants. that is why your
friends are made to suffer.

LUKE: And that is why I have to go.

BEN: Luke, I don't want to lose you to the Emperor the way I lost
Vader.

LUKE: You won't.

YODA: Stopped they must be. On this depends. Only a fully trained Jedi
Knight with the Force as his ally will conquer Vader and his Emperor.
If you end your training now, if you choose the quick and easy path,
as Vader did, you will become an agent of evil.

BEN: Patience.

LUKE: And sacrifice Han and Leia?

YODA: If you honor what they fight for...yes!

Luke is in great anguish. He struggles with the dilemma, a
battle raging in his mind.

BEN: If you choose to face Vader, you will do it alone. I cannot
interfere.

LUKE: I understand. (he moves to his X-wing) Artoo, fire up the
converters.

Artoo whistles a happy reply.

BEN: Luke, don't give in to hate -- that leads to the dark side.

Luke nods and climbs into his ship.

YODA: Strong is Vader. Mind what you have learned. Save you it can.

LUKE: I will. And I'll return. I promise.

Artoo closes the cockpit. Ben and Yoda stand watching as
the roar of the engines and the wind engulf them.

YODA: (sighs) Told you, I did. Reckless is he. Now matters are worse.

BEN: That boy is our last hope.

YODA: (looks up) No. There is another.

EXTERIOR: SPACE -- PLANET DAGOBAH

Luke's tiny X-wing rockets away from the green planet of
Dagobah and off into space.

INTERIOR: CLOUD CITY -- LIVING QUARTERS -- DAY

Within the quarters assigned her on Cloud City, Leia paces
in agitation. She has changed from her cold-weather pants and
jacket to a lovely dress. Her hair is down, tied back with
ribbons. She moves from a large, open window and turns to see
Han entering through the doorway.

HAN: The ship is almost finished. Two or Three more things and we're
in great shape.

LEIA: The sooner the better. Something's wrong here. No one has seen
or knows anything about Threepio. He's been gone too long to have
gotten lost.

Han takes Leia by the shoulders and gently kisses her
forehead.

HAN: Relax. I'll talk to Lando and see what I can find out.

LEIA: I don't trust Lando.

HAN: Well, I don't trust him, either. But he is my friend. Besides,
we'll soon be gone.

LEIA: And then you're as good as gone, aren't you?

Not speaking, Han considers her words and gazes at her
troubled face.

INTERIOR: CLOUD CITY -- JUNK ROOM

The room is piled high with broken and discarded machine
parts. Four Ugnaughts, small hoglike creatures, separate the
junk and throw some pieces onto a conveyer belt which moves
briskly toward a pit of molten metal. Pieces of Threepio's
golden body move down the belt. Chewie enters the room and
spots an Ugnaught picking up and inspecting Threepio's head.
The Wookiee barks a command, startling the Ugnaught, then
reaches to grab the head. But the Ugnaught tosses it away from
him to another Ugnaught. This game of keep-away goes on until
Threepio's head falls from their grip and bounces with a clang
onto the ground.

INTERIOR: CLOUD CITY -- LIVING QUARTERS -- DAY

The door zaps open. Chewbacca walks in, carrying a packing
case of Threepio, arms and legs hanging over the edge.

LEIA: What happened?

Chewie sets the case on a table, grunting and groaning an
explanation.

HAN: Where? Found him in a junk pile?

LEIA: Oh, what a mess. Chewie, do you think you can repair him?

The giant Wookiee studies the array of robot parts. He
looks at the princess and shrugs sadly.

HAN: Lando's got people who can fix him.

LEIA: No, thanks.

There is a buzz and the door slides open, revealing Lando.

LANDO: I'm sorry. Am I interrupting anything?

LEIA: Not really.

LANDO: You look absolutely beautiful. You truly belong here with us
among the clouds.

LEIA: (coolly) Thank you.

LANDO: Will you join me for a little refreshment?

Han looks at Lando suspiciously, but Chewie barks at the
mention of food and licks his lips.

LANDO: Everyone's invited, of course.

Leia takes Lando's proffered arm, and the group turns to
go. Lando spots Threepio's remains.

LANDO: Having trouble with you droid?

Han and Leia exchange a quick glance.

HAN: No. No problem. Why?

Han and Leia move arm-in-arm through the door, followed by
Lando and Chewie. The door slides closed behind them.

INTERIOR: CLOUD CITY -- CORRIDOR -- DAY

Leia walks between Han and Lando as Chewie follows a short
distance behind. Long shafts of light pour across the corridor
between tall, pure-white columns.

LANDO: So you see, since we're a small operation, we don't fall into
the...uh...jurisdiction of the Empire.

LEIA: So you're part of the mining guild then?

LANDO: No, not actually. Our operation is small enough not to be
noticed...which is advantageous for everybody since our customers are
anxious to avoid attracting attention to themselves.

The group walks into another corridor and heads for a huge
doorway at the far end.

HAN: Aren't you afraid the Empire's going to find out about this
little operation and shut you down?

LANDO: That's always been a danger looming like a shadow over
everything we've built here. But things have developed that will
insure security. I've just made a deal that will keep the Empire out
of here forever.

INTERIOR: CLOUD CITY -- DINING ROOM

The mighty doors to the dining room slide open and the
group enters the dining room. At the far end of a huge banquet
table sits Darth Vader. Standing at his side and slightly
behind him is Boba Fett, the bounty hunter.
Faster than the wink of an eye, Han draws his blaster and
pops off a couple of shots directly at Vader. The Dark Lord
quickly raises his hand, deflecting the bolts into one of the
side walls, where they explode harmlessly. Just as quickly,
Han's weapon zips into Vader's hand. The evil presence calmly
places the gun on the table in front of him.

VADER: We would be honored if you would join us.

Han gives Lando a mean look.

LANDO: I had no choice. They arrived right before you did. I'm sorry.

HAN: I'm sorry, too.

EXTERIOR: LUKE'S X-WING -- BESPIN SYSTEM

Luke's X-wing races through thick clouds toward Cloud City.

INTERIOR: LUKE'S X-WING -- COCKPIT

Luke is grim-faced as he pilots his course toward Bespin's
shining city. Artoo's beeps and whistles are transmitted onto
the scope.

LUKE: (into comlink) No, Threepio's with them.

Artoo whistles another worried inquiry.

LUKE: (into comlink) Just hang on. We're almost there.

INTERIOR: CLOUD CITY -- LARGE CELL

Chewbacca is in a Cloud City prison cell. The stark room is
flooded with hot light. To add to Chewie's misery, a
high-pitched whistle screeches loudly. Chewie is going mad. He
hits the wall with giant fists as he paces back and forth
across the cell floor. The upper lights go off abruptly. The
prisoner rubs his eyes and moves to a wall, where he listens
for a moment. Then, moaning to himself, he moves to a platform
where the disassembled pieces of Threepio lie. He picks up the
golden droid's head and meditates on it for a moment, barking
a few philosophical remarks. Chewie sticks the robot's head on
its torso and starts adjusting wires and circuits. Suddenly,
the lights in Threepio's eyes spark to life as Chewie touches
two connectors together. Threepio immediately begins to speak,
but his voice is so slow and so low as to be nearly
unintelligible.

THREEPIO: Mmmm. Oh, my. Uh, I, uh -- Take this off! I, uh, don't mean
to intrude here. I, don't, no, no, no...Please don't get up. No!

Chewie looks at Threepio in bewilderment, then scratches
his furry head. He gets an idea and adjusts some connections,
whereupon Threepio immediately begins speaking normally.

THREEPIO: Stormtroopers? Here? We're in danger. I must tell the
others. Oh, no! I've been shot!

INTERIOR: CLOUD CITY -- PRISON ENTRY AREA

Darth Vader strides through the room as two stormtroopers
prepare an elaborate torture mechanism. Han is strapped to a
rack which tilts forward onto the torture device. Vader
activates the mechanism, creating two bursts of sparks, one of
which strikes Han's face.
The door opens, and Darth Vader moves to the holding
chamber, where Lando and Boba Fett await him.

INTERIOR: CLOUD CITY -- HOLDING CHAMBER

LANDO: Lord Vader.

VADER: (to Fett) You may take Captain Solo to Jabba the Hut after I
have Skywalker.

Han's screams filter through the torture room door.

BOBA FETT: He's no good to me dead.

VADER: He will not be permanently damaged.

LANDO: Lord Vader, what about Leia and the Wookiee?

VADER: They must never again leave this city.

LANDO: That was never a condition of our agreement, nor was giving Han
to this bounty hunter!

VADER: Perhaps you think you're being treated unfairly.

LANDO: No.

VADER: Good. It would be unfortunate if I had to leave a garrison
here.

Vader turns and sweeps into the elevator with Boba Fett.
Lando walks swiftly down another corridor, muttering to
himself.

LANDO: This deal's getting worse all the time.

INTERIOR: CLOUD CITY -- LARGE CELL

Chewie now has a little more of Threepio back together. One
arm is connected, but the legs are yet to be attached. There
is one small problem, however. It seems the Wookiee has
managed to put the droid's head on backwards.

THREEPIO: Oh, yes, that's very good. I like that. Oh! Something's not
right because now I can't see. Wait. Wait! Oh, my! what have you done?
I'm backwards, you stupid furball. Only an overgrown mophead like you
would be stupid enough...

Threepio is cut off in mid-sentence as Chewie angrily
deactivates a circuit and the droid shuts down. The Wookiee
smells something and sits up. The door to the chamber slides
open and a ragged Han Solo is shoved into the room by two
stormtroopers. Barking his concern, the huge Wookiee gives Han
a big hug. Han is very pale, with dark circles under his eyes.

HAN: I feel terrible.

Chewie helps Han to a platform and then turns as the door
slides open revealing Leia. She, too, looks a little worse for
wear. The troopers push her into the cell, and the door slides
closed. She moves to Han, who is lying on the platform, and
kneels next to him, gently stroking his head.

LEIA: Why are they doing this?

HAN: They never even asked me any questions.

The cell door slides open. Lando and two of his guards
enter.

LEIA: Lando.

HAN: Get out of here, Lando!

LANDO: Shut up and listen! Vader has agreed to turn Leia and Chewie
over to me.

HAN: Over to you?

LANDO: They'll have to stay here, but at least they'll be safe.

LEIA: What about Han?

LANDO Vader's giving him to the bounty hunter.

LEIA: Vader wants us all dead.

LANDO: He doesn't want you at all. He's after somebody called
Skywalker.

HAN: Luke?

LANDO: Lord Vader has set a trap for him.

Leia's mind is racing.

LEIA: And we're the bait.

LANDO: Well, he's on his way.

Han's rage peaks.

HAN: Perfect. You fixed us all pretty good, didn't you? (spits it out)
My friend!

Han hauls off and punches Lando. The two friends are
instantly engaged in a frantic close-quarters fight. The
guards hit Han with their rifle butts and he flies across the
room. Chewie growls and starts for the guards. They point
their laser weapons at the giant Wookiee, but Lando stops
them.

LANDO: Stop! I've done all I can do. I'm sorry I couldn't do better,
but I have my own problems.

HAN: Yeah, you're a real hero.

Lando and the guards leave. Han wipes the blood from his
chin as Leia and Chewie help him up.

LEIA: (dabs at his wound) You certainly have a way with people.

INTERIOR: CLOUD CITY -- CARBON-FREEZING CHAMBER

Four armor-suited stormtroopers stand at the ready in the
large chamber, which is filled with pipes and chemical tanks.
In the middle of the room is a round pit housing a hydraulic
platform. Darth Vader and Lando stand near the platform.

VADER: This facility is crude, but it should be adequate to freeze
Skywalker for his journey to the Emperor.

An Imperial soldier appears.

IMPERIAL SOLDIER: Lord Vader, ship approaching. X-wing class.

VADER: Good. Monitor Skywalker and allow him to land.

The soldier bows and leaves the chamber.

LANDO: Lord Vader, we only use this facility for carbon freezing. If
you put him in there, it might kill him.

VADER: I do not want the Emperor's prize damaged. We will test it...on
Captain Solo.

Lando's face registers dismay.

EXTERIOR: SPACE -- BESPIN SYSTEM -- LUKE'S X-WING

Luke's X-wing moves through the clouds as it nears the
city.

INTERIOR: LUKE'S X-WING -- COCKPIT

Encountering no city guards, Luke scans the display panel
with concern.

INTERIOR: CLOUD CITY -- CARBON-FREEZING CHAMBER

There is a great activity on the carbon-freezing platform.
Six Ugnaughts frantically prepare the chamber for use. A
special coffinlike container is put in place. With Boba Fett
in the lead, a squad of six stormtroopers brings in Han, Leia
and Chewie. Strapped to Chewie's back, with only his head,
torso, and one arm assembled, is Threepio. Threepio's head
faces the opposite direction from Chewie's and the droid is
constantly twisting around in a vain effort to see what is
happening. His one attached arm is animate and expressive,
intermittently pointing, gesturing, and covering his eyes. The
remaining pieces of his body are randomly bundled to the
Wookiee's back so that his legs and other arm stick out at odd
angles from the pack.

THREEPIO: If only you had attached my legs, I wouldn't be in this
ridiculous position. Now, remember, Chewbacca, you have a
responsibility to me, so don't do anything foolish.

HAN: (to Lando) What's going on...buddy?

LANDO: You're being put into carbon freeze.

Boba Fett moves away from the group to Darth Vader.

BOBA FETT: What if he doesn't survive? He's worth a lot to me.

VADER: The Empire will compensate you if he dies. Put him in!

Realizing what is about to happen, Chewie lets out a wild
howl and attacks the stormtroopers surrounding Han. Within
seconds, other Imperial reinforcements join the scuffle,
clubbing the giant Wookiee with their laser weapons. From the
instant of Chewie's first move, Threepio begins to scream in
panic while he tries to protect himself with his one arm.

THREEPIO: Oh, no! No, no, no! Stop, Chewbacca, stop...!

The stormtroopers are about to bash Chewie in the face.

HAN: Stop, Chewie, stop! Do you hear me? Stop!

THREEPIO: Yes, stop, please! I'm not ready to die.

Han breaks away from his captors. Vader nods to the guards
to let him go and the pirate breaks up the fight.

HAN: Chewie! Chewie, this won't help me. Hey!

Han gives the Wookiee a stern look.

HAN: Save your strength. There'll be another time. The princess -- you
have to take care of her. You hear me?

Han winks at the Wookiee, who wails a doleful farewell.
In a flash the guards have slipped binders on Chewbacca,
who is too distraught to protest. Han turns to Princess Leia.
They look sorrowfully at one another, then Han moves toward
her and gives her a final, passionate kiss.

LEIA: I love you!

HAN: I know.

Tears roll down Leia's face as she watches the dashing
pirate walk to the hydraulic platform. Han looks one final
time at his friends -- and then, suddenly, the platform drops.
Chewie howls. Leia turns away in agony. Lando winces in
sorrow; it makes a life-changing impression on him.
Instantly, fiery liquid begins to pour down in a shower of
sparks and fluid as great as any steel furnace. Holding Leia,
Chewie half-turns away from the sight, giving Threepio a view
of the procedure.

THREEPIO: What...what's going on? Turn around, Chewbacca, I can't see.
Oh...they've encased him in carbonite. He should be quite
well-protected -- if he survives the freezing process, that is.

Chewie is in no mood for technical discussion; he gives the
droid an angry glance and barks.
A huge mechanical tong lifts the steaming metal-encased
space pirate out of the vat and stands him on the platform.
Some Ugnaughts rush over and push the block over onto the
platform. They slide the coffinlike structure to the block and
lift the metal block, placing it inside. They then attach an
electronic box onto the structure and step away.
Lando kneels and adjusts some knobs, measuring the heat. He
shakes his head in relief.

VADER: Well, Calrissian, did he survive?

LANDO: Yes, he's alive. And in perfect hibernation.

Vader turns to Boba Fett.

VADER: He's all yours bounty hunter. Reset the chamber for Skywalker.

IMPERIAL OFFICER: Skywalker has just landed, my lord.

VADER: Good. See to it that he finds his way here. Calrissian, take
the princess and the Wookiee to my ship.

LANDO: You said they'd be left in the city under my supervision.

VADER: I am altering the deal. Pray I don't alter it any further.

Lando's hand instinctively goes to his throat as he turns
to Leia, Chewie, and Threepio.

INTERIOR: CLOUD CITY -- CORRIDOR -- DAY

As Luke and Artoo move carefully down a deserted corridor,
they hear a group of people coming down a side hallway. Artoo
lets out an excited series of beeps and whistles. Luke glares
at the tiny droid, who stops in his tracks with a feeble
squeak.
Boba Fett enters from a side hallway followed by two guards
pushing the floating, encased body of Han Solo. Two
stormtroopers, who follow, immediately spot Luke and open fire
on him. The youth draws his weapon and blasts the two
troopers before they can get off a second shot. The two guards
whisk Han into another hallway as Fett lowers his arm and
fires a deadly laser at Luke, which explodes to one side and
tears up a huge chunk of wall.
Luke rushes to a side hallway, but by the time he reaches
it, Fett, Han, and the guards are gone. A think metal door
blocks the passage. Luke turns to see Leia, Chewie, Threepio,
and Lando being herded down a second hallway by several other
stormtroopers. Leia turns just in time to see Luke.

LEIA: Luke! Luke, don't -- it's a trap! It's a trap!

Before she can finish, she is pulled through a doorway and
disappears from sight. Luke races after the group, leaving
little Artoo trailing behind.

INTERIOR: CLOUD CITY -- ANTEROOM

Luke runs into an anteroom and stops to get his bearings.
Leia and the others are nowhere to be seen. Behind Luke, Artoo
scoots down the corridor toward the anteroom when suddenly a
giant metal door comes slamming down, cutting off Luke's exit.
Several more doors clang shut, echoing through the chamber.

INTERIOR: CLOUD CITY -- HALLWAY LEADING TO ANTEROOM

Artoo stands with his nose pressed against the giant metal
door. He whistles a long sigh of relief and, a little dazed,
wanders off in the other direction.

INTERIOR: CLOUD CITY -- CARBON-FREEZING CHAMBER -- ANTEROOM

Luke cautiously walks forward among hissing pipes and
steam. Seeing an opening above him, he stops to look up. As he
does, the platform he stands on begins to move.

INTERIOR: CLOUD CITY -- CARBON-FREEZING CHAMBER

Luke rises into the chamber, borne by the platform. The
room is deathly quiet. Very little steam escapes the pipes and
no one else seems to be in the large room. Warily, Luke walks
toward the stairway.
Steam begins to build up in the chamber. Looking up through
the steam, Luke sees a dark figure standing on a walkway above
him. Luke holsters his gun and moves up the stairs to face
Vader. He feels confident, eager to engage his enemy.

VADER: The Force is with you, young Skywalker. But you are not a Jedi
yet.

Luke ignites his sword in answer. In an instant, Vader's
own sword is lit. Luke lunges, but Vader repels the blow.
Again Luke attacks, and the swords of the two combatants clash
in battle.

INTERIOR: CLOUD CITY -- CORRIDOR

Leia, Lando, and Chewie, with Threepio on his back, march
along, guarded by six stormtroopers. The group reaches an
intersection where Lobot and a dozen of Lando's guards stand
at attention.
The guards immediately aim their weapons at the startled
stormtroopers. Taking the stormtroopers' weapons from them,
Lobot hands one to Leia and one to Lando.

LANDO: Well done. Hold them in the security tower -- and keep it
quiet. Move.

As Lando's guards quickly march the stormtroopers away,
Lando begins to undo Chewie's binding.

LEIA: What do you think you're doing?

LANDO: We're getting out of here.

THREEPIO: I knew all along it had to be a mistake.

Chewie turns on Lando and starts to choke him.

LEIA: Do you think that after what you did to Han we're going to trust
you?

Lando tries to free himself from Chewie.

LANDO: (choking) I had no choice...

Chewie barks ferociously.

THREEPIO: (to Chewie) What are you doing? Trust him, trust him!

LEIA: Oh, so we understand, don't we, Chewie? He had no choice.

LANDO: I'm just trying to help...

LEIA: We don't need any of your help.

LANDO: (choking) H-a-a-a...

LEIA: What?

THREEPIO: It sounds like Han.

LANDO: There's still a chance to save Han...I mean, at the East
Platform...

LEIA: Chewie.

Chewie finally releases Lando, who fights to get his breath
back.

THREEPIO: (to Lando) I'm terribly sorry about all this. After all,
he's only a Wookiee.

EXTERIOR: CLOUD CITY -- EAST LANDING PLATFORM -- BOBA FETT'S SHIP

The two guards slide Han's encased body into an opening in
the side of the bounty hunter's ship. Boba Fett climb aboard
on a ladder next to the cargo hold.

BOBA FETT: Put Captain Solo in the cargo hold.

And with that, the door slams shut.

INTERIOR: CLOUD CITY -- CORRIDOR

Lando, Leia, and Chewie run down a Cloud City corridor when
suddenly they spot Artoo who rushes toward them, beeping
wildly.

THREEPIO: Artoo! Artoo! Where have you been?

Chewie turns around to see the stubby droid, causing
Threepio to be spun out of sight of his friend.

THREEPIO: Turn around, you wooly...! (to Artoo) Hurry, hurry! We're
trying to save Han from the bounty hunter!

Whistling frantically to Threepio, Artoo scoots along with
the racing group.

THREEPIO: Well, at least your still in one piece! Look what happened
to me!

EXTERIOR: EAST LANDING PLATFORM -- SIDE BAY

An elevator door slides open and Lando, Leia, and Chewbacca
race for a large bay overlooking the East Landing Platform.
Just as they arrive, Boba Fett's ship takes off against a
cloudy sunset sky. 
In wild anguish, Chewie howls and starts firing at the
ship.

THREEPIO: Oh, no! Chewie, they're behind you!

A laser bolt explodes near the princess. Everyone turns to
see what Threepio has already spotted coming from the other
direction; a squad of stormtroopers running toward them. Artoo
peeks out from the elevator.
Leia and Chewbacca start firing at the troopers as Lando
makes a break for the elevator. Laser bolts continue to
explode around the princess and the Wookiee, but they refuse
to budge. Lando sticks his head out of the elevator and
motions for the pair to run, but they barely notice. They seem
possessed, transported, as all the frustration of captivity
and anger of loss pour through their death-dealing weapons.
But after a few moments, they begin to move through the
rain of laser fire toward the elevator. Once they are inside,
the door slams shut and the stormtroopers race forward.

INTERIOR: CLOUD CITY -- CARBON-FREEZING CHAMBER

Luke and Vader are locked in combat on the platform
overlooking the chamber. Their swords clash, the platform
sways. Luke aggressively drives Vader back, forcing Vader to
use defensive tactics.

VADER: You have learned much, young one.

LUKE: You'll find I'm full of surprises.

Vader makes two quick moves, hooking Luke's sword out of
his hand and sending it flying. Another lightning move at
Luke's feet forces the youth to jump back to protect himself.
Losing his balance, Luke rolls down the stairs to the circular
carbon-freezing platform. There he sprawls on the floor,
surprised and shaken. Just in time he looks up to see Vader,
like a giant black bird, flying right at him. Luke rolls away
as Vader lands. Crouching, Luke keeps his gaze steadily on his
enemy.

VADER: Your destiny lies with me, Skywalker. Obi-Wan knew this to be
true.

LUKE: No!

Behind Luke the hydraulic elevator cover has opened
noiselessly. All the while, Luke slowly, cautiously moves
back, away from the Dark Lord.
Suddenly, Vader attacks so forcefully that Luke loses his
balance and falls back into the opening. There is a rumble,
and in an instant freezing steam rises to obscure Vader's
vision.  Vader turns aside and deactivates his sword.

VADER: All to easy. Perhaps you are not as strong as the Emperor
thought.

Through the steam behind Vader something blurs upward.
Liquid metal begins to pour into the pit.
Vader turns around -- and then looks up. He sees Luke, who
has leaped fifteen feet straight up and who now hangs from
some hoses on the carbonite outlet.

VADER: Impressive...most impressive.

Luke jumps down to the platform where he is separated from
Vader by the steaming carbonite pit. He raises his hand. His
sword, which had fallen on another part of the platform,
swiftly jumps into his outstretched hand and is instantly
ignited. Vader immediately lights his sword as well.

VADER: Obi-Wan has taught you well. You have controlled your fear...
now release your anger.

Luke is more cautious, controlling his anger. He begins to
retreat as Vader goads him on. As Luke takes a defensive
position, he realizes he has been foolhardy. A quick sword
exchange and Luke forces Vader back. Another exchange and
Vader retreats. Luke presses forward.

VADER: Only your hatred can destroy me.

Breathing hard, Luke jumps in the air, turning a somersault
over Vader. He lands on the floor and slashes at Vader as the
room continues to fill up with steam.
Vader retreats before Luke's skillful sword. Vader blocks
the sword, but looses his balance and falls into the outer rim
of pipes. The energy Luke has used to stop Vader has brought
him to the point of collapse. Luke moves to the edge and looks
down, but sees no sign of Vader. He then deactivates his
sword, hooks it on his belt, and lowers himself into the pit.

INTERIOR: CLOUD CITY -- TUNNEL AND REACTOR CONTROL ROOM

Moving through a tunnellike entrance, Luke cautiously
approaches the reactor room. He ignites his sword and moves
into the room and toward a large window as Vader enters.
Luke raises his sword and moves forward to attack.
Behind Luke a large piece of machinery detaches itself from
the wall and comes smashing forward toward his back. Luke
turns and cuts it in half just as another machine comes
hurtling at him. Using the Force, Luke manages to deflect it
and send it flying as if it had hit an invisible shield. A
large pipe detaches and comes flying at Luke. He deflects it.
Sparking wires pull out of the wall and begin to whip at the
youth. Small tools and equipment come flying at him.
Bombardment from all sides, Luke does his best to deflect
everything, but soon he is bloodied and bruised. Finally, one
machine glances off his and goes flying out the large window.
A fierce wind blows into the room, unmoving, stands the dark,
rocklike figure of Vader.
A piece of machinery hits Luke and he is knocked out of the
window.

INTERIOR: GANTRY -- OUTSIDE CONTROL ROOM -- REACTOR SHAFT

Luke falls onto the gantry, rolls, and hangs over the edge,
holding his deactivated sword in hand. He puts the sword on
his belt and begins to scramble up.

INTERIOR: CLOUD CITY -- CORRIDOR LEADING TO LANDING PLATFORM

Leia, Lando, Chewie and the droids come round a corner and
head for the door to the landing platform. They glimpse the
Millennium Falcon for a moment before the door slams shut. The
group ducks into an alcove as stormtroopers arrive at the end
of the corridor. The troopers send a rain of laser bolts at
the group. Chewie returns their fire as Lando punches
desperately at the door's control panel.

LANDO: The security codes has been changed!

THREEPIO: Artoo, you can tell the computer to override the security
system.

Threepio points to a computer socket on the control panel.
Artoo beeps and scoots toward it. Lando meanwhile has
connected up to the panel's intercom.

LANDO: Attention! This is Lando Calrissian. The Empire has takes
control of the city. I advise everyone to leave before more Imperial
troops arrive.

Artoo takes off a computer cover and sticks his computer
arm into the socket. Suddenly, a short beep turns into a wild
scream. Artoo's circuits light up, his head spins wildly, and
smoke begins to seep out underneath him. Quickly, Chewie pulls
him away.

LANDO: This way.

Lando, Leia, Artoo, and Chewie flee down the corridor. As
he scoots along with them, Artoo sends some angry beeps
Threepio's way.

THREEPIO: Don't blame me. I'm an interpreter. I'm not supposed to know
a power socket from a computer terminal.

INTERIOR: CLOUD CITY -- CORRIDOR

In a panic, Cloud City residents are trying to get out of
the city. Some carry boxes, others packages. They run, then
change direction. Some are shooting at stormtroopers, others
simply try to hide.
Other stormtroopers pursue Lando, Leia, and Chewie who are
firing back at them. Artoo works on another door to the
landing platform while Threepio berates him for his seeming
ineptitude.

THREEPIO: What are you talking about? We're not interested in the
hyperdrive on the Millennium Falcon. It's fixed! Just open the door,
you stupid lump.

Chewie, Leia, and Lando retreat along the corridor. A
triumphant beep from Artoo -- and the door snaps open.

THREEPIO: (to Artoo) I never doubted you for a second. Wonderful!

Artoo lays a cloud fog, obscuring everything, as the group
dashes outside.

EXTERIOR: LANDING PLATFORM -- CLOUD CITY -- DUSK

They race for the Millennium Falcon as a battalion of
stormtroopers reaches the main door. Lando and Leia hold off
the troops as the droids get on board with Chewie. As Chewie
bounds to the ship the Threepio on his back, Threepio hits his
head on the top of the ramp.

THREEPIO: Ouch! Oh! Ah! That hurt, Bend down, you thoughtless...Ow!

Chewie starts up the ship. The giant engines begin to whine
as Lando and Leia race up the ramp under a hail of laser fire.

LANDO: Leia! Go!

INTERIOR: MILLENNIUM FALCON -- CORRIDOR

Artoo drags the partially assembled Threepio down the
corridor of the Falcon.

THREEPIO: I thought that hairy beast would be the end of me. Of
course, I've looked better.

Artoo beeps understandingly.

INTERIOR: MILLENNIUM FALCON -- COCKPIT

Chewie works the controls as Leia sits in Han's seat and
Lando watches over their shoulders. As Chewie pulls back on
the throttle, the ship begins to move.

EXTERIOR: CLOUD CITY -- LANDING PLATFORM -- DUSK

The Millennium Falcon lifts gracefully into the twilight
sky and roars away from the city. Troops fire after it and TIE
fighters take off in pursuit.

INTERIOR: GANTRY -- OUTSIDE CONTROL ROOM -- REACTOR SHAFT

Luke moves along the railing and up to the control room.
Vader lunges at him and Luke immediately raises his lit sword
to meet Vader's. Sparks fly as they duel, Vader gradually
forcing Luke backward toward the gantry.

VADER: You are beaten. It is useless to resist. Don't let yourself be
destroyed as Obi-Wan did.

Luke answers by rolling sideways and thrusting his sword at
Vader so viciously that he nicks Vader on the shoulder. The
black armor sparks and smokes and Vader seems to be hurt, but
immediately recovers.
Luke backs off along the narrow end of the gantry as Vader
comes at him, slashing at the young Jedi with his sword. Luke
makes a quick move around the instrument complex attached to
the end of the gantry. Vader's sword comes slashing down,
cutting the complex loose; it begins to fall, then is caught
by the rising wind and blown upward.
Luke glances at the instrument complex floating away. At
that instant, Vader's sword comes down across Luke's right
forearm, cutting off his hand and sending his sword flying. 
In great pain, Luke squeezes his forearm under his left armpit 
and moves back along the gantry to its extreme end. Vader
follows. The wind subsides. Luke holds on. There is nowhere
else to go. 

VADER: There is no escape. Don't make me destroy you. You do not yet
realize your importance. You have only begun to discover you power.
Join me and I will complete your training. With our combined strength,
we can end this destructive conflict and bring order to the galaxy.

LUKE: I'll never join you!

VADER: If you only knew the power of the dark side. Obi-Wan never told
you what happened to your father.

LUKE: He told me enough! He told me you killed him.

VADER: No. I am your father.

Shocked, Luke looks at Vader in utter disbelief.

LUKE: No. No. That's not true! That's impossible!

VADER: Search your feelings. You know it to be true.

LUKE: No! No! No!

VADER: Luke. You can destroy the Emperor. He has foreseen this. It is
your destiny. Join me, and we can rule the galaxy as father and son.
Come with me. It's the only way.

Vader puts away his sword and holds his hand out to Luke.
A calm comes over Luke, and he makes a decision. In the
next instant he steps off the gantry platform into space. The
Dark Lord looks over the platform and sees Luke falling far
below. The wind begins to blow at Vader's cape and the torrent
finally forces him back, away from the edge. The wind soon
fades and the wounded Jedi begins to drop fast, unable to grab
onto anything to break his fall.

INTERIOR: REACTOR SHAFT

Suddenly Luke is sucked into an exhaust pipe in the side of
the shaft. When Vader sees this, he turns and hurries off the
platform.

INTERIOR: EXHAUST PIPE

Luke tumbles through the exhaust pipe.
He slides to the end of the slickly polished pipe and stops
as his feet hit a circular grill and knock it open. Luke claws
at the surface of the pipe, trying to keep from sliding out
into space.

EXTERIOR: BOTTOM OF CLOUD CITY -- WEATHER VANE -- DUSK

Unable to hang onto the pipe, Luke tumbles out, emerging at
the undermost part of Cloud City. Reaching out desperately, he
manages to grab onto on electronic weather vane.

LUKE: Ben...Ben, please!

Luke tries to pull himself up on the weather vane but slips
back down. He hooks one of his legs around the fragile
instruments. All the while, a powerful current of air rushes
out at him from the exhaust pipe.

LUKE: Ben. Leia!

There is an ominous cracking sound from the base of the
weather vane and a piece breaks off, falling into the clouds
far below.

LUKE: Hear me! Leia!

INTERIOR: MILLENNIUM FALCON -- COCKPIT

Leia seems to be lost in a fog, her expression troubled.
Chewie is busy operating the ship. Lando stands next to the
Wookiee, watching a readout on the control panel.

LEIA: Luke...We've got to go back.

Chewie growls in surprise.

LANDO: What?

LEIA: I know where Luke is.

LANDO: But what about those fighter?

Chewie barks in agreement with Lando.

LEIA: Chewie, just do it.

LANDO: But what about Vader?

Chewie turns on Lando, the newcomer, with an ominous growl.

LANDO: All right, all right, all right.

EXTERIOR: CLOUD CITY -- MILLENNIUM FALCON -- DUSK

The Falcon makes a graceful banking turn back toward Cloud
City.

EXTERIOR: CLOUD CITY -- LANDING PLATFORM

Vader enters the landing platform and watches as the speck
that is the Falcon disappears. The wind blows at his cape.
He turns to two aides who are standing near the entrance to
the landing platform.

VADER: Bring my shuttle.

EXTERIOR: BOTTOM OF CLOUD CITY -- WEATHER VANE

Nearly unconscious, Luke hangs upside-down on the weather
vane as his body shifts in the wind.

EXTERIOR: MILLENNIUM FALCON -- BOTTOM OF CLOUD CITY

The Falcon dives to the underside of the floating city.
Three TIE fighter close in on the starship.

INTERIOR: MILLENNIUM FALCON

Leia tries to remain calm.

LANDO: (pointing out the cockpit window) Look, someone's up there.

LEIA: It's Luke. Chewie, slow down. Slow down and we'll get under him.
Lando, open the top hatch.

Lando rushes out of the cockpit.

EXTERIOR: BOTTOM OF CLOUD CITY -- WEATHER VANE

Luke hangs by one arm from the crossbar of the weather
vane. He slips from the bar and grabs onto the pole of the
vane as the Falcon banks toward him. The Falcon positions
itself under Luke as Lando moves up through the opening of the
hatch. Luke begins to slide and finally falls from the vane
into space.

INTERIOR: MILLENNIUM FALCON -- COCKPIT

Out the cockpit window, Leia sees Luke falling from the
bottom of the city. The ship gains on him.

LEIA: Okay. Easy, Chewie.

The Falcon closes in on Luke.

EXTERIOR: BOTTOM OF CLOUD CITY

Three TIE fighters race toward the Falcon, firing away.

INTERIOR: MILLENNIUM FALCON -- HATCH

The hatch pops open with a hiss of pressure. Lando reaches
out to help the battered warrior inside the ship.

INTERIOR: MILLENNIUM FALCON -- COCKPIT

Flak bursts all around it as the Falcon banks away from the
city. Leia and Chewie struggle with the controls.

LEIA: (into intercom) Lando?

LANDO: (over intercom) Okay, let's go.

EXTERIOR: BOTTOM OF CLOUD CITY

The Falcon races away. It is closely followed by three TIE
fighters, all of which keep up a heavy laser assault on the
fleeing starship.

INTERIOR: MILLENNIUM FALCON -- COCKPIT

Explosions erupt all around the cockpit, buffeting the ship
wildly. Chewie howls as he frantically tries to control the
ship.
Leia and Chewie turns to see Luke, bloody and battered,
enter the cockpit supported by Lando. Leia jumps up and hugs
him while Chewie barks in joyous relief.

LUKE: Oh, Leia.

LANDO: All right, Chewie. Let's go.

Leia helps Luke from the cockpit as another huge blast
rocks the ship.

EXTERIOR: SPACE -- CLOUD CITY -- DAY

The Falcon, still followed by the three TIE fighters, races
away from the cloud-covered city.

INTERIOR: MILLENNIUM FALCON -- SLEEPING QUARTERS

Luke rests on a cot, his injured arm wrapped in a
protective cuff. Leia gently wipes his face. The ship lurches
again.

LEIA: I'll be back.

She kisses him, then leaves the quarters.

INTERIOR: MILLENNIUM FALCON -- COCKPIT

All over the ship muted alarm buzzers sound. Lando
anxiously watches the flashing lights on the control panel and
hurriedly adjusts some switches. Seated next to him, Chewie
points out a new blip appearing on the panel. Leia, watching
over their shoulders, recognizes the shape.

LEIA: Star Destroyer.

LANDO: All right, Chewie. Ready for light-speed.

LEIA: If your people fixed the hyperdrive.

Another explosion rocks the ship. Leia notices as a green
light on the panel next to her flashes on.

LEIA: All the coordinates are set. It's now or never.

Chewie barks in agreement.

LANDO: Punch it!

The Wookiee shrugs and pulls back on the light-speed
throttle. The sound of the ion engine changes...it is winding
up. Faces are tense, expectant. But nothing happens, and the
engine goes off. Chewie lets out a frustrated howl. The flak
still violently rocks the ship.

LANDO: They told me they fixed it. I trusted them to fix it. It's not
my fault!

Chewie gets up from his chair and starts out of the
cockpit. He gives Lando and angry shove as he storms past him.

EXTERIOR: SPACE

In the distance the TIE fighters continue their chase,
still shooting lasers. Vader's Star Destroyer moves behind
them, determinedly following the Falcon.

INTERIOR: VADER'S STAR DESTROYER -- BRIDGE

Vader stands on the bridge looking out the window as
Admiral Piett approaches him.

PIETT: They'll be in range of our tractor beam in moments, lord.

VADER: Did your men deactivate the hyperdrive on the Millennium
Falcon?

PIETT: Yes, my lord.

VADER: Good. Prepare the boarding party and set for your weapons for
stun.

PIETT: Yes, my lord.

INTERIOR: MILLENNIUM FALCON

Beeping while he works, Artoo is busy connecting some wires
to Threepio who now has one leg attached.
Chewie enters through the doorway, grunting to himself.

THREEPIO: Noisy brute. Why don't we just go into light-speed?

Artoo beeps in response.

THREEPIO: We can't? How would you know the hyperdrive is deactivated?

Artoo whistles knowingly.

THREEPIO: The city's central computer told you? Artoo-Detoo, you know
better than to trust a strange computer. Ouch! Pay attention to what
you're doing!

Chewie is in the pit. He is trying to loosen something with
an enormous wrench. Frustrated, he uses the wrench like a club
and hits the panel...

INTERIOR: MILLENNIUM FALCON -- COCKPIT

Leia and Lando, seated in front of the control panel, are
suddenly sprayed by a shower of sparks.

INTERIOR: VADER'S STAR DESTROYER -- BRIDGE

Vader stands on the bridge, watching as the Millennium
Falcon is chased by the TIE fighters. As his Destroyer draws
nearer, Vader's breathing gets slightly faster.

VADER: Luke.

INTERIOR: MILLENNIUM FALCON -- SLEEPING QUARTERS

Luke realizes that Vader's ship is very near. He feels
resigned to his fate. He senses that he is beaten, more
emotionally than physically.

LUKE: Father.

INTERIOR: VADER'S STAR DESTROYER -- BRIDGE

VADER: Son, come with me.

INTERIOR: MILLENNIUM FALCON -- SLEEPING QUARTERS

LUKE: (moaning) Ben, why didn't you tell me?

INTERIOR: MILLENNIUM FALCON -- COCKPIT

Lando and Leia are at the controls of the Falcon.
Meanwhile, in the ship's hold, Chewie continues to work
frantically on the hyperdrive mechanism.

LANDO: (into intercom) Chewie!

EXTERIOR: SPACE

The Falcon races through space followed very closely by the
TIE fighters and the huge Imperial Star Destroyer.

INTERIOR: MILLENNIUM FALCON -- COCKPIT

Luke enters the cockpit and looks out the window. He is
almost unconscious with pain and depression.

LUKE: It's Vader.

INTERIOR: VADER'S STAR DESTROYER -- BRIDGE

VADER: Luke...it is your destiny.

INTERIOR: MILLENNIUM FALCON -- COCKPIT

LUKE: Ben, why didn't you tell me?

INTERIOR: VADER'S STAR DESTROYER -- BRIDGE

PIETT: Alert all commands. Ready for the tractor beam.

INTERIOR: MILLENNIUM FALCON -- HOLD

Artoo races to a control panel and starts working on a
circuit board. Furious, Threepio stands on one leg, yelling.

THREEPIO: Artoo, come back at once! You haven't finished with me yet!
You don't know how to fix the hyperdrive. Chewbacca can do it. I'm
standing here in pieces, and you're having delusions of grandeur!

Artoo moves a circuit on a control panel. Suddenly, the
control panel lights up.

INTERIOR: MILLENNIUM FALCON -- COCKPIT

Leia and Lando are thrown into their seats as the
Millennium Falcon unexpectedly shoot into hyperspace.

INTERIOR: MILLENNIUM FALCON -- HOLD

The ship tilts up and Artoo topples into the pit on top of
Chewie.

THREEPIO: Oh, you did it!

EXTERIOR: SPACE

The Falcon soars into infinity and away from the huge Star
Destroyer which seems, by contrast, to stand still.

INTERIOR: VADER'S STAR DESTROYER -- BRIDGE

Admiral Piett and another captain glance at Vader in
terror. Vader turns slowly and walks off the bridge, his hands
held behind his back in a contemplative gesture.

EXTERIOR: SPACE -- REBEL CRUISER

The Millennium Falcon is attached to a huge Rebel cruiser
by a docking tube. Rebel fighters move about the giant
cruiser, and a Rebel transport ship hovers near the fleet.

INTERIOR: MILLENNIUM FALCON -- COCKPIT

Lando sits in the pilot's seat as he talks into the
comlink. Chewie busily throws a variety of switches in
preparation for takeoff.

LANDO: (into comlink) Luke, we're ready for takeoff.

LUKE: (over comlink) Good luck, Lando

LANDO: (into comlink) When we find Jabba the Hut and that bounty
hunter, we'll contact you.

INTERIOR: STAR CRUISER -- MEDICAL CENTER

Luke speaking into the comlink as a medical droid works on
his hand. Leia stands near him while Threepio and Artoo look
out the window.

LUKE: (into comlink) I'll meet you at the rendezvous point on
Tatooine.

INTERIOR: MILLENNIUM FALCON -- COCKPIT

LANDO: (into comlink) Princess, we'll find Han. I promise.

INTERIOR: STAR CRUISER -- MEDICAL CENTER

LUKE: (into comlink) Chewie, I'll be waiting for your signal.

Chewie's wail comes over the comlink.

LUKE: (into comlink) Take care, you two. May the Force be with you.

Luke looks down at his hand. A metalized type of bandage
has been wrapped around his wrist. The medical droid makes
some adjustments in a tiny electronic unit, then pricks each
one of Luke's fingers.

LUKE: Ow!

Luke wriggles his fingers, makes a fist, and relaxes it.
His hand is completely functional.
He gets up and walks over to Leia. There is a new bond
between them, a new understanding. Leia is thinking about Han;
Luke is thinking about his uncertain and newly complicated
future. Together they stand at the large window of the medical
center looking out on the Rebel Star Cruiser and a dense,
luminous galaxy swirling in space. Luke puts his arm around
Leia. The droids stand next to them, and Threepio moves closer
to Artoo putting his arm on him. The group watches as the
Millennium Falcon moves into view, makes a turn, and zooms
away into space.

EXTERIOR: SPACE -- REBEL STAR CRUISER

While Luke, Leia, and the droids stand, looking out the
window of the star cruiser, two escort fighters join the large
ship. Slowly, the cruiser turns and moves away into space.

DISSOLVE TO:

EXTERIOR: GALAXY -- SPACE

Star Wars: Episode 1:The Phantom Menace

TITLE CARD : A long time ago in a galaxy far, far away....

A vast sea of stars serves as the backdrop for the main title, followed by
a roll up, which crawls up into infinity.

EPISODE 1 THE PHANTOM MENACE

Turmoil has engulfed the Galactic Republic. The taxation of trade routes to
outlaying star systems is in dispute.
Hoping to resolve the matter with a blockade of deadly battleships, the
greedy Trade Federation has stopped all shipping to the small planet of
Naboo.
While the congress of the Republic endlessly debates this alarming chain of
events, the Supreme Chancellor has secretly dispatched two Jedi Knights,
the guardians of peace and justice in the galaxy, to settle the
conflict.....

PAN DOWN to reveal a small space cruiser heading TOWARD CAMERA at great
speed. PAN with the cruiser as it heads towardthe beautiful green planet of
Naboo, which is surrounded by hundreds of Trade Federation battleships.

INT. REPUBLIC CRUISER - COCKPIT


In the cockpit of the cruise, the CAPTAIN and PILOT maneuver closer to one
of the battleships.

QUI-GON : (off screen voice) Captain.

The Captain turns to an unseen figure sitting behind her.

CAPTAIN : Yes, sir?
QUI-GON : (V.O) Tell them we wish to board at once.
CAPTAIN : Yes, sir.

The CAPTAIN looks to her view screen, where NUTE GUNRAY, a Neimoidian trade
viceroy, waits for a reply.

CAPTAIN : (cont'd) With all due respect for the Trade Federation, the
Ambassodors for the Supreme Chancellor wish to board immediately.
NUTE : Yes, yes, of coarse...ahhh...as you know, our blockade is perfectly
legal, and we'd be happy to recieve the Ambassador...Happy to.

The screen goes black. Out the cockpit window, the sinister battleship
looms ever closer.

EXT. FEDERATION BATTLESHIP - DOCKING BAY - SPACE (FX)

The small space cruiser docks in the enormous main bay of the Federation
battleship.

INT. FEDERATION BATTLESHIP - DOCKING BAY - SPACE

A PROTOCOL DROID, TC-14, waits at the door to the docking bay. Two WORKER
DROIDS, PK-4 and EG-9 watch.

PK-4 : They must be important if the Viceroy sent one of those useless
protocol gearheads to greet them.

The door opens, and the Republic cruiser can be seen in the docking bay.
Two darkly robed figures are greeted by TC-14.

TC-14 : I'm TC-14 at your service. This way, please.

They move off down the hallway.

EG-9 : A Republic cruiser! That's trouble...don't you think?
PR-4 : I'm not made to think.

INT. FEDERATION BATTLESHIP - CONFERENCE ROOM

A door slides open, and the two cloaked shapes are led PAST CAMERA into the
formal conference room by TC-14.

TC-14 : I hope you honoured sirs with the most comfortable here. My master
will be with you shortly.

The droid bows before OBI-WAN KENOBI and QUI- GON JINN. He backs out the
door and it closes. The JEDI lower their hoods and look out a large window
at the lush green planet of Naboo. QUI-GON sixty years old, has long white
hair in a ponytail. He is tall and striking, with blue eyes. OBI-WAN is
twenty five, with very short brown hair, pale skin, and blue eyes. Several
exotic, bird-like creatures SING in a cage near the door.

OBI-WAN : I have a bad feeling about this.
QUI-GON : I don't sense anything.
OBI-WAN : It's not about the mission, Master, it's
somethging...elsewhere...elusive.
QUI-GON : Don't center on your anxiety, Obi-Wan. Keep your concentration
here and now where it belongs.
OBI-WAN : Master Yoda says I should be mindful of the future...
QUI-GON : .....but not at the expense of the moment. Be mindful of the
living Force, my young Padawan.
OBI-WAN : Yes, Master...how do you think the trade viceroy will deal with
the chancellor's demands?
QUI-GON : These Federation types are cowards. The negotiations will be
short.

INT. FEDERATION BATTLESHIP - BRIDGE

NUTE GUNRAY and DAULTRAY DOFINE stand, stunned, before TC-14.

NUTE : (shaken) What?!? What did you say?
TC-14 : The Ambassadors are Jedi Knights, I believe.
DOFINE : I knew it! They were sent to force a settlement, eh. Blind me,
we're done for!

INT. FEDERATION BATTLESHIP - HALLWAY

A hologram of NUTE , surrounded by BATTLE DROIDS, appears in the conference
room hallway.

NUTE : They must be dead by now. Blast, what's left of them.

The hologram fades off, as a BATTLE DROID, OWO-1, cautiously opens the
door. A deadly green cloud billows from the room. BATTLE DROIDS cock their
weapons as a figure stumbles out of the smoke. It is TC-14 , carrying the
tray of drinks.

TC14 : Oh, excuse me, so sorry.

The PROTOCOL DROID passes the armed camp just as two flashing laser swords
fly out of the deadly fog, cutting down several BATTLE DROIDS before they
can fire.

INT. FEDERATION BATTLESHIP - BRIDGE

The bridge is a cocophony of alarms. NUTE and RUNE watch OWO-1 on the
viewscreen.

OWO-1 : Not sure exactly what...

OWO-1 is suddenly cut in half in mid-sentence. RUNE gives NUTE a worried
look.

NUTE : What in blazes is going on down there?
RUNE : Have you ever encountered a Jedi Knight before, sir?
NUTE : Well, not exactly, but I don't...(panicked) Seal off the bridge.
RUNE : That won't be enough, sir.

The doors to the bridge SLAM shut.

NUTE : I want destroyer droids up here at once!!!
RUNE : We will not survive this.

INT. FEDERATION BATTLESHIP - HALLWAY - OUTSIDE BRIDGE

QUI-GON cuts several BATTLE DROIDS in half, creating a shower of sparks and
metal parts. OBI-WAN raises his hand, sending several BATTLE DROIDS
crashing into the wall.

QUI-GON makes his way to the bridge door and begins to cut through it.

INT. FEDERATION BATTLESHIP - BRIDGE

The CREW is very nervous as sparks start flying around the bridge door.
QUI-GON and OBI-WAN are on the view screen.

NUTE : Close the blast doors!!!

The huge, very thick blast door slams shut, followed by a second door, then
a third. There is a hissing sound as the huge doors seal shut. QUI-GON tabs
the door with his sword. The screen goes black as a red spot appears in the
center of the blast door.

RUNE : ...They're still coming through!

On the door, chunks of molten metal begin to drop away.

NUTE : Impossible!! This is impossible!!
RUNE : Where are those destroyer droids?!

INT. FEDERATION BATTLESHIP - HALLWAY - OUTSIDE BRIDGE

Ten ugly destroyer WHEEL DROIDS roll down the hallway at full speed. Just
before they get to the bridge area, they stop and transform into their
battle configuration. QUI-GON can't see them but senses their presence.

QUI-GON : Destroyer droids!
OBI-WAN : Offhand, I'd say this mission is past the negotiaion stage.

The WHEEL DROIDS, led by P-59, rush the entry area from three hallways,
blasting away with their laser guns. They stop firing and stand in a
semi-circle as the smoke clears. OBI-WAN and QUI-GON are nowhere to be
seen.

P-59 : Switch to bio...There they are!

The Jedi materialize at the far end of the hallway and dash through the
doorway that slams shut. The WHEEL DROIDS blast away at the two JEDI with
their laser swords.

OBI-WAN : They have shield generators!
QUI-GON : It's a standoff! Let's go!

INT. FEDERATION BATTLESHIP - BRIDGE

NUTE and RUNE stand on the bridge, watching the view screen as the WHEEL
DROIDS' POV speeds to the doorway.

RUNE : We have them on the run, sir...they're no match for destroyer
droids.
TEY HOW : Sir, they've gone up the ventilation shaft.

INT. FEDERATION BATTLESHIP - MAIN BAY

QUI-GON and OBI-WAN appear at a large vent in a giant hanger bay. They are
careful not to be seen. Thousands of BATTLE DROIDS are loading onto landing
craft.

QUI-GON : Battle droids.
OBI-WAN : It's an invisible army.
QUI-GON : It's an odd play for the Trade Federation. We've got to warn the
Naboo and contact Chancellor Valorum. Let's split up. Stow aboard separate
ships and meet down on the planet.
OBI-WAN : You were right about one thing, Master. The negotiations were
short.

INT. FEDERATION BATTLESHIP - BRIDGE

TEY HOW recieves a transmission.

TEY HOW : Sir, a transmission from the planet.
RUNE : It's Queen Amidala herself.
NUTE : At last we're getting results.

On the view screen, QUEEN AMIDALA appears in her throne room. Wearing her
elaborate headdress and robes, she sits, surrounded by the GOVERNING
COUNCIL and FOUR HANDMAIDENS, EIRTAE, YANE, RABE, and SACHE.

NUTE : (cont'd) Again you come before me, Your highness. The Federation is
pleased.
AMIDALA : You will not be pleased when you hear what I have to say,
Viceroy...Your trade boycott of our planet has ended.

NUTE smirks at RUNE.

NUTE : I was not aware of such a failure.
AMIDALA : I have word that the Senate is finally voting on this blockade of
yours.
NUTE : I take it you know the outcome. I wonder why they bother to vote.
AMIDALA : Enough of this pretense, Viceroy! I'm aware the Chancellor's
Ambassadors are with you now, and that you have beencommanded to reach a
settlement.
NUTE : I know nothing about any Ambassadors...you must be mistaken.

AMIDALA, surprised at his reaction, studies him carefully.

AMIDALA : Beware, Viceroy....the Federation is going too far this time.
NUTE : Your Highness, we would never do anything without the approval of
the Senate. You assume too much.
AMIDALA : We will see.

The QUEEN fades off, and the view screen goes black.

RUNE : She's right, the Senate will never....
NUTE : It's too late now.
RUNE : Do you think she suspects an attack?
NUTE : I don't know, but we must move quickly to disrupt all communications
down there.

INT. NABOO PALACE - THRONE ROOM

The QUEEN, EIRTAE, SACHE and her Governor, SIO BIBBLE, stand before a
hologram of SENATOR PALPATINE, a thin, kindly man.

PALPATINE : ...How could that be true? I have assurances from the
Chancellor...his Ambassaodrs did arrive. It must be
the...get...negotiate...

The hologram of PALPATIONE sputters and fades away.

AMIDALA : Senator Palpatine?!? (turns to Panaka) What's happening?

CAPTAIN PANAKA turns to his SARGEANT

CAPT. PANAKA : Check the transmission generators...
BIBBLE : A malfunction?
CAPT. PANAKA : It could be the Federation jamming us. Your Highness.
BIBBLE : A communications disruption can only mean one thing. Invasion.
AMIDALA : Don't jump to conclusions, Governor. The Federation would not
dare go that far.
CAPT. PANAKA : The Senate would revoke their trade franchise, and they'd be
finished.
AMIDALA : We must continue to rely on negotiation.
BIBBLE : Negotiation? We've lost all communications!...and where atre the
Chancellors Ambassadors? How can we negotiate? We must prepare to defend
ourselves.
CAPT. PANAKA : This is a dangerous situation, Your Highness. Our security
volunteers will be no match against a battle-hardened Federation army.
AMIDALA : I will not condone a course of action that will lead us to war.

EXT. SPACE LANDING CRAFT - TWILIGHT (FX)

Six landing craft fly in formation toward the surface of the planet Naboo.

EXT. NABOO SWAMP - SHALLOW LAKE - TWILIGHT

Three landing craft slowly descend through the cloud cover of the
perpetually gray twilight side of the planet. One by one, the Federation
warships land in the eerie swamp.
OBI-WAN's head emerges from the mud of a shallow lake. For in the
background, the activities of the invasion force can be seen in the mist.
OBI-WAN takes several deep breaths, then dissapears again under the muddy
swamp. Troop Transports (MTT's) emerge from the landing craft.

EXT. NABOO EDGE OF SWAMP / GRASS PLAINS - TWILIGHT (FX)

The droid invasion force moves out of the swamp and onto a grassy plain.
OOM-9, in his tank, looks out over the vast ARMY marching across the
rolling hills. A small hologram of RUNE and NUTE stands on the tank.

RUNE : ...and there is no trace of the Jedi. They may have gotton onto one
of your landing craft.
OOM-9 : If they are down here, sir, we'll find them. We are moving out of
the swamp and are marching on the cities. We are meeting no resistance.
NUTE : Excellent.

EXT. NABOO SWAMP - TWILIGHT

QUI-GON runs through the strange landscape, glancing back to see the
monstrous troop transports, emerging from the mist. Animals begin to run
past him in a panic.
An odd, frog-like Gungan, JAR JAR INKS, squats holding a clam he has
retrieved from the murky swamp. The shell pops open. JAR JAR's greta tongue
snaps out and grabs the clam, swallowing it in one gulp.
JAR JAR looks up and sees QUI-GON and the other creatures running like the
wind toward him. One of the huge MTT's bears down on the JEDI like a
charging locomotive. JAR JAR stands transfixed, still holding the clam
shell in one hand.

JAR JAR : Oh, noooooooooo!

JAR JAR drops the shell and grabs onto QUI-GON as he passes. The JEDI is
caught by surprise.

JAR JAR : (Cont'd) Hey, help me! Help me!!
QUI-GON : Let go!

The machine is about tp crush them as QUI-GON drags JAR JAR behind him.
Just as the transport is about to hit them, QUI-GON drops, and JAR JAR goes
splat into the mud with him. The transport races overhead.
QUI-GON and JAR JAR pull themselves out of the mud. They stand watching the
war machine dissapear into the mist. JAR JAR grabs QUI-GON and hugs him.

JAR JAR : Oyi, mooie-mooie! I luv yous!

The frog-like creature kisses the JEDI.

QUI-GON : Are you brainless? You almost got us killed!
JAR JAR : I spake.
QUI-GON : The ability to speak does not make you intelligent. Now get outta
here!

QUI-GON starts to move off, and JAR JAR follows.

JAR JAR : No...no! Mesa stay...Mesa yous humble servaunt.
QUI-GON : That wont be necessary.
JAR JAR : Oh boot tis! Tis demunded byda guds. Tis a live debett, tis. Mesa
culled Jaja Binkss.

In the distance, two STAPS burst out of the mist at high speed, chasing
OBI-WAN.

QUI-GON : I have no time for this now...
JAR JAR : Say what?

The two STAPS barrell down on OBI-WAN.

JAR JAR : (cont'd) Oh, nooooo! Weesa ganna....

QUI-GON throws JAR JAR into the mud.

QUI-GON : Stay down!

His head pops up.

JAR JAR : ...dieeee!

The two troops fire laser bolts at OBI-WAN. QUI-GON deflects the bolts
back, and the STAPS blow up. One-two. OBI-WAN is exhausted and tries to
catch his breath.

OBI-WAN : Sorry, Master, the water fried my weapon.

OBI-WAN pulls out his burnt laser sword handle. QUI-GON inspects it, as JAR
JAR pulls himself out of the mud.

QUI-GON : You forgot to turn your power off again, didn't you?

OBI-WAN nods sheeplishly.

QUI-GON : (cont'd) It won't take long to recharge, but this is a lesson I
hope you've learned, my young Padawan.
OBI-WAN : Yes, Master.
JAR JAR : Yousa sav-ed my again, hey?
OBI-WAN : What's this?
QUI-GON : A local. Let's go, before more of those droids show up.
JAR JAR : Mure? Mure did you spake??!?

OBI-WAN and QUI-GON start to run. JAR JAR tries to keep up.

JAR JAR : (cont'd) Ex-squeeze me, but da moto grande safe place would be
Otoh Gunga. Tis where I grew up...Tis safe city.

They all stop.

QUI-GON : A city! (JAR JAR nods his head) Can you take us there?
JAR JAR : Ahhh, will...on second taut...no, not willy.
QUI-GON : No??!
JAR JAR : Iss embarrissing, boot... My afrai my've bean banished. My
forgoten der Bosses would do terrible tings to my. Terrible tings if my
goen back dare.

A PULSATING SOUND is heard in the distance.

QUI-GON : You hear that?

JAR JAR shakes his head yes.

QUI-GON : (cont'd) That's the sound of a thousand terrible things heading
this way...
OBI-WAN : When they find us, they will crush us, grind us into little
pieces, then blast us into oblivion!
JAR JAR : Oh! Yousa point is well seen. Dis way! Hurry!

JAR JAR turns and runs into the swamp.

EXT. NABOO SWAMP LAKE - TWILIGHT

QUI-GON, OBI-WAN and JAR JAR run into a murky lake and stop as JAR JAR
tries to catch his breath. The TRANSPORTS ARE HEARD in the distance.

QUI-GON : Much farther?
JAR JAR : Wesa goen underwater, okeyday?

QUI-GON and OBI-WAN pull out small capsule from their utility belts that
turn into breathing masks.

JAR JAR : (cont'd) My warning yous. Gungans no liken outlaunders. Don't
expict a wern welcome.
OBI-WAN : Don't worry, this has not been our day for warm welcomes.

JAR JAR jumps, does a double somersault with a twist, and dives into the
water.
Breath masks on, QUI-GON and OBI-WAN wade in after him.

EXT. NABOO LAKE - UNDERWATER

QUI-GON and OBI-WAN swim behind JAR JAR, who is very much at home in the
water. Down they swim into murky depths. In the distance the glow of Otoh
Gunga, an underwater city made up of large bubbles, becomes more distinct.
They approach the strange, art nouveau habitat. JAR JAR swims magically
through one of the bubble membranes, which seals behind him. OBI-WAN and
QUI-GON follow.

INT. OTOH GUNGA - CITY SQUARE

GUNGANS in the square scatter when they see the strange JEDI. Four GUARDS
armed with long electro-poles ride two-legged KAADUS into the square. The
GUARDS, led by CAPTAIN TARPALS, point their lethal poles at the dripping
trio.

JAR JAR : Heyo-dalee, Cap'n Tarpals, Mesa back!
CAPT. TARPALS : Noah gain, Jar Jar. Yousa goen tada Bosses. Yousa in big
dudu this time.

CAPT. TARPALS gives JAR JAR a slight zap with his power pole. JAR JAR jumps
and moves off, followed by the two JEDI.

JAR JAR : How wude.

INT. OTOH GUNGA - HIGH TOWER BOARD ROOM

The Bosses' Board Room has bubble walls, with small lighted fish swimming
around outside like moving stars. A long circular judge's bench filled with
GUNGAN OFFICIALS dominates the room. OBI-WAN and QUI-GON stand facing BOSS
NASS, who sits on a bench higher than the others.

BOSS NASS : Yousa cannot bees hair. Dis army of mackineeks up dare tis new
weesong!
QUI-GON : That droid army is about to attack the Naboo. We must warn them.
BOSS NASS : Wesa no like da Naboo! Un dey no like uss-ens. Da Naboo tink
day so smarty den us-ens. Day tink day brains so big.
OBI-WAN : After those droids take control of the surface, they will come
here and take control of you.
BOSS NASS : No, mesa no tink so. Mesa scant talkie witda Naboo, and no
nutten talkie it outlaunders. Dos mackineeks no comen here! Dey not know of
uss-en.
OBI-WAN : You and the Naboo form a symbiont circle. What happens to noe of
you will affect the other. You must understand this.
BOSS NASS : Wesa wish no nutten in yousa tings, outlaunder, and wesa no
care-n about da Naboo.
QUI-GON : (waves his hand) Then speed us on our way.
BOSS NASS : Wesa gonna speed yousaway.
QUI-GON : We need a transport.
BOSS NASS : Wesa give yousa una bongo. Da speedest way tooda Naboo tis goen
through da core. Now go.
QUI-GON : Thank you for your help. We go in peace.

QUI-GON and OBI-WAN turn to leave.

OBI-WAN : Master, whats a bongo?
QUI-GON : A transport, I hope.

The JEDI notice JAR JAR in chains to one side, waiting to hear his verdict.
QUI-GON stops. JAR JAR gives him a forlorn look.

JAR JAR : Daza setten yous up. Goen through da planet core is bad bombin!!
QUI-GON : Thank you, my friend.
JAR JAR : Ahhh...any hep hair would be hot.

JAR JAR's soulful look is counterpointed by a sheepish grin.

OBI-WAN : We are short of time, Master.
QUI-GON : We'll need a navigator to get us through the planet's core. This
Gungan my be of help.

QUI-GON walks bact to BOSS NASS.

QUI-GON : (cont'd) What is to become of Jar Jar Binks here?
BOSS NASS : Binkss brokeen the nocombackie law. Hisen to be pune-ished.
QUI-GON : He has been a great help to us. I hope the punishment will not be
too severe.
BOSS NASS : Pounded unto death.
JAR JAR : (grimacing) Oooooh...Ouch!

OBI-WAN looks concerned. QUI-GON is thinking.

QUI-GON : We need a navigator to get us through the planet's core. I have
saved Jar Jar Binks' life. He owes me what you call a "life.debt."
BOSS NASS : Binks. Yousa havena liveplay with thisen hisen?

JAR JAR nods and joins the JEDI. QUI-GON waves his hand.

QUI-GON : Your gods demand that his life belongs to me now.
BOSS NASS : Hisen live tis yos, outlauder. Begone wit him.
JAR JAR : Count mesa outta dis! Better dead here, den deader in da
core...Yee guds, whata mesa sayin?!

EXT. NABOO CITY - UNDERWATER - SUB (FX)

A strange little submarine propels itself away from the Otoh Gunga, leaving
the glow of the settlement in the distance.

INT. SUB COCKPIT - UNDERWATER

OBI-WAN in the co-pilots seat, JAR JAR guides the craft.

JAR JAR : Dis is nusen.
OBI-WAN : Master, why do you keep dragging these pathetic life forms along
with us?...Here, take over.
JAR JAR : Hey, ho? Where wesa goen??
QUI-GON : You're the navigator.
JAR JAR : Yo dreamen mesa hopen...,br QUI-GON : Just relax, the Force will
guide us...
JAR JAR : Ooooh, maxibig..."da Force"...Wellen, dat smells stinkowiff.

JAR JAR veers the craft to the left and turns the lights on. The coral
vistas are grand, fantastic, and wonderous.

OBI-WAN : Why were you banished, Jar Jar?
JAR JAR : Tis a long tale, buta small part wawdabe
mesa...ooooh...aaaa.....clumsy.
OBI-WAN : They banished you because you're clumsy?

As the little sub glides into the planet core, a large dark shape begins to
follow.

JAR JAR : Mesa cause-ed mabee one or duey lettal bitty axadentes...yud-say
boom da gasser, un crash Der Bosses heyblibber...den banished.

Suddenly there is a loud CRASH, and the little craft lurches to one side.
QUI-GON looks around and sees a huge, lumimnous OPEE SEA KILLER has hooked
them with its long gooey tongue.

QUI-GON : Full speed ahead.

Instead of full ahead, JAR JAR jams the controls into reverse. The sub
flies into the mouth of the creature.

JAR JAR : Oooops.
OBI-WAN : Give me the controls.

OBI-WAN takes over the controls and the OPEE SEA KILLER instantly releases
the sub from its mouth.

JAR JAR : Wesa free!

As the sub zooms away they see a larger set of jaws, munching on the
hapless KILLER. The jaws belong to the incredible SANDO AQUA MONSTER. The
lights on the tiny sub begin to flicker as they cruise deeper into the
gloom.

QUI-GON : There's always a bigger fish.

INT. FEDERATION BATTLESHIP - BRIDGE

NUTE and RUNE stand before a hologram of DARTH SIDIOUS.

NUTE : The invasion is on schedule, My Lord.
DARTH SIDIOUS : Good. I have the Senate bogged down in procedures. By the
time this incident comes up for a vote, they will have no choice but to
accept your control of the system.
NUTE : The Queen has great faith the Senate will side with her.
DARTH SIDIOUS : Queen Amidala is yound and naive. You will find controlling
her will not be difficult. You have done well, Viceroy.
NUTE : Thank you, My Lord.

DARTH SIDIOUS fades away.

RUNE : You didn't tell him about the missing Jedi?
NUTE : No need to report that to him, until we have something to report.

INT. SUB COCKPIT - UNDERWATER

Sparks are flying, and water is leaking into the cabin. The sound of the
power drive drops.

OBI-WAN : .....we're losing power.

OBI-WAN is working with the sparking wires. JAR JAR panics.

QUI-GON : Stay calm. We're not in trouble yet.
JAR JAR : What yet? Monstairs out dare! Leak'n in here, all'n sink'n, and
nooooo power! You nutsen! WHEN YOUSA TINK WESA IN TROUBLE?!!!?
OBI-WAN : Power's back.

The lights flicker on, revealing an ugly COLO CLAW FISH right in front of
them.

JAR JAR : Monstairs back!

The large COLO CLAW FISH is surprised and rears back. The sub turns around
and speeds away.

JAR JAR : (cont'd) Wesa in trouble now??
QUI-GON : Relax.

QUI-GON puts his hand on JAR JAR's shoulder. JAR JAR relaxes into a coma.

OBI-WAN : You overdid it.

The COLO CLAW FISH leaps after the fleeing sub as it shoots out of the
tunnel and into the waiting jaws of the SANDO AQUA MONSTER.

OBI-WAN (cont'd) This is not good!

JAR JAR regains consciousness.
JAR JAR : Wesa dead yet?? Oie Boie!

JAR JAR's eyes bulge, and he faints again. The sub narrowly avoids the
deadly teeth of the AQUA MONSTER. The COLO CLAW FISH chasing them isn't so
lucky. It is munched in half by the larger predator. The little sub slips
away.

QUI-GON : Head for that outcropping.

EXT. THEED - MAIN ROAD INTO THEED - DAY (FX)

The long columns of the DROID ARMY move down the main road leading to
Theed, the Naboo capital.

EXT. THEED PLAZA - DAY (FX)

As the QUEEN watches helplessly from a window in the palace, a transport
carrying NUTE and RUNE lands in Theed Plaza. They exit the transport.

NUTE : Ah, victory!

INT. NABOO LAKE - UNDERWATER - SUB (FX)

The little sub continue to propel itself toward the surface, which is
brightly lit.

JAR JAR : Wesa dude it!

EXT. THEED - ESTUARY - DAY

Paradise. Billowing clouds frame a romantic body of water. There is a LOUD
RUSH OF BUBBLES, and a small sub bobs to the surface.
The current in the estuary begins to pull the sub backward into a fast
moving river. OBI-WAN switches off the two remaining bubble canopies.
QUI-GON stands up to look around. JAR JAR lets out a sigh of relief.

JAR JAR : Wesa safe now.
QUI-GON : Get this thing started.
JAR JAR : Dissen berry good. Hey?
OBI-WAN : What is it?

JAR JAR looks back to where they're drifting. He sees they are headed for a
huge waterfall.

JAR JAR : What!!?? Oie boie!

OBI-WAN tries to start the engine. The long props behind the sub slowly
begin to rotate. OBI-WAN struggles until finally, a few feet short of the
waterfall, the sub starts and is able to generate enough power to stop
drifting backward in the powerful current. The sub slowly moves forward. In
the background, QUI-GON takes a cable out of his belt. The engine coughs
and dies. They start drifting backward again. JAR JAR panics.

JAR JAR : (cont'd) Iyiiyi, wesa die'n here, hey!

QUI-GON shoots the thin cable, and it wraps itself around a railing on the
shore. The sub pulls the cable taut, and the little craft hangs
precariously over the edge of the waterfall.

QUI-GON : Come on...

OBI-WAN climbs out of the sub and pulls himself along the cable. QUI-GON
starts in after him.

QUI-GON : (cont'd) Come on, Jar Jar.
JAR JAR : No! Too scary!
OBI-WAN : Get up here!
JAR JAR : No a mighty no!

JAR JAR looks back and sees he is hanging over the waterfall.

JAR JAR : (cont'd) Oie boie...mesa comen. Mesa comen!

JAR JAR starts to climb out of the sub. OBI-WAN is on shore and helps to
pull QUI-GON out of the water.

OBI-WAN : That was close.
BATTLE DROID 3B3 : (O.S) Drop your weapons!

The TWO JEDI turn around to see a BATTLE DROID standing in front of them.
JAR JAR climbs up on shore between the JEDI.

BATTLE DROID 3B3 : I said drop your weapons

QUI-GON ignites his laser sword, and in a brief flash, the DROID is cut
down by the JEDI. A stray laser bolt hits the cable and the sub breaks
lose, crashing down the waterfall.
The JEDI move on. JAR JAR reluctantly follows and looks back at the mess.

JAR JAR : Whoa!!!

EXT. THEED - PALACE - DAY

The waterfalls of Theed sparkle in the noonday sun.

INT. THEED - PALACE THRONE ROOM - DAY

QUEEN AMIDALA, SIO BIBBLE, and FIVE OF HER HANDMAIDENS (EIRTAE, YANE,
PADME, RABE, SACHE) are surrounded by TWENTY DROIDS. CAPTAIN PANAKA and
FOUR NABOO GUARDS are also held at gunpoint. NUTE and RUNE stand in the
middle of the room.

BIBBLE : ...how will you explain this invasion to the Senate?
NUTE : The Naboo and the Federation will forge a treaty that will
legitimize our occupation here. I've been assured it will be ratified by
the Senate.
AMIDALA : I will not co-operate.
NUTE : Now, now, your Highness. You are not going to like what we have in
store for your people. In time, their suffering will persuade you to see
our point of view. Commander. (OOM-9 steps forward) Process them.
OOM-9 : Yes, sir! (turns to his sergeant) Take them to Camp Four.

The SERGEANT marches the GROUP out of the throne room.

EXT. PALACE - PLAZA - DAY

QUEEN AMIDALA, PADME, EIRTA, YANE, RABE, SACHE, CAPTAIN PANAKA, SIO
BIBBLE,
and FOUR GUARDS are led out of the palace by ten BATTLE DROIDS. The plaza
is filled with tanks and BATTLE DROIDS, which they pass on their way to the
detention camp. Unbeknownst to them, QUI-GON, OBI-WAN, and JAR JAR sneak
across on a walkway above the plaza and jump from a balcony to begin an
attack to rescue the QUEEN.

FOUR BATTLE DROIDS are instantly cut down. MORE DROIDS move forward and are
also cut down by the JEDIS' flashing lightsabres until there is only the
DROID SERGEANT left. The SERGEANT starts to run but is pulled back to
QUI-GON by the Force, until finally he is dispatched by the JEDI.

JAR JAR : Yousa guys bombad!

QUEEN AMIDALA and the OTHERS are amazed. JAR JAR is getting used to this.
They move between two buildings.

QUI-GON : Your Highness, we are the Ambassadors, for the Supreme
Chancellor.
BIBBLE : Your negotiations seem to have failed, Ambassador.
QUI-GON : The negotiations never took place. Your Highness, we must make
contact with the republic.

CAPTAIN PANAKA steps forward.

CAPT. PANAKA : They've knocked out all our communications.
QUI-GON : Do you have transports?
CAPT. PANAKA : In the main hanger. This way.

THEY disappear down an alleyway as the ALARMS are sounded

INT. CENTRAL HANGER - HALLWAY - DAY

CAPTAIN PANAKA cracks open a side door to the central hanger. QUI-GON looks
in over his shoulder. OBI-WAN, JAR JAR, and the rest of the group are
behind him. They see several Naboo spacecraft guarded by about FIFTY BATTLE
DROIDS. ALARMS can be heard in the distance.

CAPT. PANAKA : There are too many of them.
QUI-GON : That won't be a problem. (to Amidala) Your Highness, under the
circumstances, Isuggest you come to Coruscant with us.
AMIDALA : Thank you, Ambassador, but my place is here with my people.
QUI-GON : They will kill you if you stay.
BIBBLE : They wouldn't dare.
CAPT. PANAKA : They need her to sign a treaty to make this invasion of
theirs legal. They can't afford to kill her.
QUI-GON : The situation here is not what it seems. There is something else
behind all this, Your Highness. There is no logic in the Federation's move
here. My feelings tell me they will destroy you.
BIBBLE : Please, Your Highness, reconsider. Our only hope is for the Senate
to side with us... Senator Palpatine will need your help.
CAPT. PANAKA : Getting past their blockade is impossible, Your Highness.
Any attempt to escape will be dangerous.
BIBBLE : Your Highness, I will stay here and do what I can...They will have
to retain the Council of Governors in order to maintain control. But you
must leave...

The QUEEN turns to PADME and EIRTAE.

AMIDALA : Either choice presents a great risk...to all of us...
PADME : We are brave, Your Highness.
QUI-GON : If you are to leave, Your Highness, it must be now.
AMIDALA : Then, I will plead our case before the Senate. (to Bibble) Be
careful, Governor.

INT. CENTRAL HANGER - DAY

The door opens to the main hanger. QUI-GON, OBI-WAN, JAR JAR, CAPTAIN
PANAKA, TWO GUARDS, and THREE HANDMAIDENS (PADME, EIRTAE, RABE),
followed
by QUEEN AMIDALA, head for a sleek chrome spacecraft. SIO BIBBLE, YANE and
SACHE stay behind. The HANDMAIDENS begin to cry.

CAPT. PANAKA : We need to free those pilots.

CAPTAIN PANAKA points to TWENTY GUARDS, GROUND CREW, and PILOTS held in a
corner by SIX BATTLE DROIDS.

OBI-WAN : I'll take care of that. OBI-WAN heads toward the group of
captured pilots.

QUI-GON and the QUEEN, CAPTAIN PANAKA, JAR JAR, and the rest Of the GROUP
approach the GUARDS at the ramp of the Naboo craft.

GUARD DROID : Where are you going?
QUI-GON : I'm Ambassador for the Supreme Chancellor, and I'm taking those
people to Coruscant.
DROID GUARD : You're under arrest!

The DROID GUARD draws his weapon, but before any of the DROIDS can fire,
they are cut down. OTHER GUARDS run to their aid. OBI-WAN attacks the
GUARDS around the PILOTS. QUI-GON stands, fighting off DROIDS as the OTHERS
rush on board the spacecraft. OBI-WAN, the FREED PILOTS (including RIC
OLIE), GUARDS and GROUND CREW MEMBERS rush on board the ship. The OTHER
PILOTS and GUARDS race to SIO BIBBLR. After everyone has made it onto the
ship, QUI-GONjumps on board. ALARMS sound. MORE DROIDS rush into the hanger
and fire as the ship takes off.

EXT. THEED - HANGER ENTRY - DAY (FX)

The ship exits the hanger. BATTLE DROIDS standing in the hanger shoot at
them.

EXT. SPACE (FX)

The sleek spacecraft speeds away from the planet of Naboo and heads for the
deadly Federation blockade.

INT. NABOO SPACECRAFT - COCKPIT

The PILOT, RIC OLIE, navigates toward the massive battleship, QUI-GON and
CAPTAIN PANAKA watch.

RIC OLIE : ....our communications are still jammed.

INT. NABOO SPACECRAFT - DROID HOLD

JAR JAR is led into a low, cramped doorway by OBI-WAN.

OBI-WAN : Now stay here, and keep out of trouble.

OBI-WAN closes the door. JAR JAR looks around and sees a long row of five
short, dome-topped ASTRO DROIDS (R-2 units). The all look alike, except for
thier paint color, and they all seem to be shut down.

JAR JAR : Ello, boyos. (no response) Disa wanna longo trip...hey?

JAR JAR taps a bright red R-2 UNIT on the head, and its head pops up a bit.
He lets out a gasp as he lifts the head.

JAR JAR : (Cont'd) Tis opens?...Oooops! Many springs and things come flying
out.

JAR JAR quickly closes it again, very embarrassed.

JAR JAR : (Cont'd) Yoi! Just yoken!
RIC OLIE : Powers back! That little droid did it. He bypassed the main
power drive. Deflector shield up, at maximum.

The lone BLUE DROID finishes his repairs and goes back into the ship. The
Naboo spacecraft races away from the Federation battleship.

RIC OLIE : There's not enough power to get us to Coruscant...the hyperdrive
is leaking.
QUI-GON : We'll have to land somewhere to refuel and repair the ship.

QUI-GON studies a star chart on a monitor.

OBI-WAN : Here, Master. Tatooine... It's small, out of the way, poor... The
Trade Federation has no presence there.
CAPT. PANAKA : How can you be sure?
QUI-GON : It's controlled by the Hutts...
CAPT. PANAKA : The Hutts??
OBI-WAN : It's risky...but there's no alternative.
CAPT. PANAKA : You can't take Her Royal Highness there! The Hutts are
gangsters... If they discovered her...
QUI-GON : ...It would be no different than if we landed on a system
controlled by the Federation...except the Hutts aren't looking for her,
which gives us an advantage.

CPATAIN PANAKA takes a deep breath in frustration.

EXT. SPACE - NABOO SPACECRAFT (FX)

The Naboo spacecraft races away.

INT. FEDERATION BATTLESHIP - CONFERENCE ROOM

NUTE and RUNE sit around a conference table with a hologram of DARTH
SIDIOUS.

NUTE : We control all the cities in the North and are searching for any
other settlements...
DARTH SIDIOUS : Destroy all high-ranking officials,
Viceroy...slowly...quietly. And Queen Amidala, has she signed the treaty?
NUTE : She has disappeared, My Lord. One Naboo cruiser got pat the
blockade.
DARTH SIDIOUS : Viceroy, find her! I want that treaty signed.
NUTE : My Lord, it's impossible to locate the ship. It's out of our range.
DARTH SIDIOUS : ...not for a Sith...

A second SITH LORD appears behind DARTH SIDIOUS.

DARTH SIDIOUS : (Cont'd) ...Viceroy, this is my apprentice. Lord Maul. He
will find your lost ship.
NUTE : Yes, My Lord. The hologram fades off.
NUTE : (Cont'd) This is getting out of hand...now there are two of them.
RUNE : We should not have made this bargain. What will happen when the Jedi
become aware of these Sith Lords?

INT. NABOO SPACECRAFT - QUEENS CHAMBERS

QUI-GON, OBI-WAN, CAPTAIN PANAKA, and the LITTLE BLUE DROID stand before
QUEEN AMIDALA and her THREE HANDMAIDENS, PADME, EIRTAE and RABE.

CAPT. PANAKA : ...An extremely well put together little droid. Without a
doubt, it saved the ship, as well as our lives.
AMIDALA : It is to be commended...what is its number?

The LITTLE BLUE DROID lets out a series of bleeps.CAPTAIN PANAKA leans over
and scrapes some dirt off of the side of the DROID and read the number:

CAPT. PANAKA : R2-D2, Your Highness.
AMIDALA : Thank you, Artoo Detoo. You have proven to be very loyal...Padme!

PADME bows before the QUEEN.

AMIDALA : (Cont'd) Clean this droid up the best you can. It deserves our
gratitude...(to Panaka) Continue, Captain.

CAPTAIN PANAKA looks nervously to OBI-WAN and QUI-GON.

QUI-GON : Yor Highness, we are heading for a remote planet called Tatooine.
It is a system far beyond the reach of the Trade Federation. There we will
be able to make needed repairs, then travel on to Coruscant.
CAPTAIN PANAKA : Your Highness, Tatooine is very dangerous. It's controlled
by an alliance of gangs called the Hutts. I do not agree with the Jedi on
this.
QUI-GON : You must trust my judgement, Your Highness.

AMIDALA and PADME exchange looks. PADME moves next to the DROID.

INT. NABOO SPACECRAFT - MAIN AREA

PADME sits in the Main Area, cleaning R2-D2, the brave little Astra Droid.
JAR JAR pops out of an open door.

JAR JAR : Hidoe!

Both PADME and ARTOO jump and let out a little SCREAM. The Gungan is
embarrassed that he frightened them.

JAR JAR : (Cont'd) Sorry, nomeanen to scare yousa.
PADME : That's all right.
JAR JAR : I scovered oily back dare. Needen it?
PADME : Thank you. This little guy is quite a mess.

JAR JAR hands PADME the oil can.

JAR JAR : Mesa Ja Ja Binksss... PADME : I'm Padme, I attend Her Highness,
You're a Gungan, aren't you? (Jar Jar nods) How did you end up here with
us?
JAR JAR : Me no know...mesa day starten pitty okeyday witda brisky morning
munchen. Den boom....getten berry skeered, un grabbed dat Jedi, and before
mesa knowen it...pow! Mesa here. (he shrugs)...getten berry berry skeered.

ARTOO BEEPS a sympathetic beep.

INT. ANBOO SPACECRAFT - COCKPIT

OBI-WAN, QUI-GON, and CAPTAIN PANAKA watch over RIC OLIE'S shoulder. A
large yellow planet appears directly ahead. RIC OLIE searches his scopes.

OBI-WAN : Tahyt's it. Tatooine.
RIC OLIE : There's a settlement...a spaceport, looks like.
QUI-GON : Land near the outskirts. We don't want to attract any attention.

EXT. TATOOINE - SPACE (FX)

The ship heads toward the planet of Tatooine.

EXT. TATOOINE - DESERT - NABOO SPACECRAFT - DAY (FX)

The Naboo spacecraft lands in the desert in a swirl of dust. The spaceport
of Mos Espa is seen in the distance.

EXT. NABOO SPACECRAFT - MAIN AREA

OBI-WAN is hoisting the hyperdrive out of a floor panel. JAR JAR rushes up
to him and falls to his knees.

JAR JAR : Obi-Wan, sire, pleeese, no mesa go!
OBI-WAN : Sorry, Qui-Gon's right. You'll make things less obvious.

JAR JAR walks back to ARTOO in the hallway as QUI-GON (dressed as a farmer)
enters the main area.

OBI-WAN : (Cant'd) The Hyperdrive generator is gone. We will need a new
one.

QUI-GON moves closer to OBI-WAN and speaks quietly to him.

QUI-GON : Don't let them send ant transmissions. Be wary...I sense a
disturbance in the Force.
OBI-WAN : I fell it also, Master.

QUI-GON goes into the hallway to meet up with ARTOO and JAR JAR. They head
to the exit ramp.

EXT. TATOOINE - DESERT - SPACESHIP - DAY

They start their trek across the desert toward the city of Mos Espa. In the
distance, a strange looking caravan makes its way toward the spaceport.

JAR JAR : Dis sun doen murder tada skin.

From the spaceship, CAPTAIN PANAKA and PADME run toward them.

CAPT. PANAKA : Wait!

QUI-GON stops as they catch up. PADME is dresses in rough peasant's garb.

CAPT. PANAKA : (Cont'd) Her Highness commands you to take her handmaiden
with you. She wishes for her to observe the local...
QUI-GON : No more commands from Her Highness today, Captain. This spaceport
is not going to be pleasant...
CAPT. PANAKA : The Queen wishes it. She is curious about this planet.
PADME : I've been trained in defense... I can take care of myself.
CAPT. PANAKA : Don't make me go back and tell her you refuse.
QUI-GON : I don't have time to argue. But this is not a good idea. Stay
close to me.

He gives PADME a stern look.

EXT. MOS ESPA - STREET - DAY

The little GROUP walks down the main street of Mos Espa. They pass
dangerous looking citizens of all types. PADME looks around in awe at this
exotic enviroment.

QUI-GON : ...moisture farms for the most part, but also a few indigenous
tribes and scavengers. The few spaceports like this one are havens for
those who do not wish to be found...
PADME : ....like us. JAR JAR is in a constant state of panic.

ARTOO whistles along, with perfect confidence.

JAR JAR : Dissen berry berry bad. (steps in ooze)
Ooooh...icky...icky...goo.

EXT. MOS ESPA - JUNK DEALER PLAZA - DAY

The GROUP comes to a little plaza surrounded by several junk spaceship
dealers.

QUI-GON : We'll try one of the smaller dealers.

They head for a little junk shop that has a huge pile of broken spaceships
stacked up behind it.

INT. WATTO'S JUNK SHOP - DAY

QUI-GON, JAR JAR, PADME, and ARTOO enter the dingy junk shop and are
greeted by WATTO, a pudgy blue alien who flies on short little wings like a
hummingbird.

WATTO : (subtitled) Hi chuba da naga? (What do you want?)
QUI-GON : I need parts for a J-type 327 Nubian.
WATTO : Ah yes, ah yes. Nubian. We have lots of that. What kinda junk?
(subtitled) Peedenkel! Naba dee unko (Boy, get in here! Now!)
QUI-GON : My droid here has a readout of what I need.

A disheveled boy, ANAKIN SKYWALKER, runs in from the junk yard. He is about
nine years old, very dirty, and dressed in rags. WATTO raises a hand, and
ANAKIN flinches.

WATTO : (subtitled) Coona tee-tocky malia? (What took you so long?)
ANAKIN : (subtitled) Mel tassa cho-passa... (I was cleaning the bin like
you...)
WATTO : (subtitled) Chut-Chut! Ganda doe wallya. (Never mind! Watch the
store) Me dwana no bata. (I've got some selling to do here.) (to Gui-Gon)
Soooo, let me take- a thee out back. Ni you'll find what you need.

ARTOO and QUI-GON follow WATTO toward the junk yard, leaving JAR JAR with
PADME and the young boy ANAKIN. JAR JAR picks up a gizmo, trying to figure
out its purpose. QUI-GON takes the part out of his hand and puts it back.

QUI-GON : Don't touch anything.

JAR JAR makes a rude face to QUI-GON's back and sticks out his long tongue.
ANAKIN sits on the counter, pretending to clean a part, staring at PADME.
She is the most beautiful creaure he has ever seen in his life. PADME is a
little embarrassed by his stare, but she musters up an amused smile.
Finally, he gets the courage to speak.

ANAKIN : Are you an angel?
PADME : What?
ANAKIN : An angel. I've heard the deep space pilots talk about them. They
live on the Moons of Iego I thimk. They are the most beautiful creatures in
the universe. They are good and kind, and so pretty they make even the most
hardened spice pirate cry.

PADME looks at him, not knowing what to say. PADME : I've never heard of
angels.

ANAKIN : You must be one...maybe you just don't know it.
PADME : You're a funny little boy. How do you know so much?
ANAKIN : Since I was very little, three, I think. My Mom and I were sold to
Gardulla the Hutt, but she lost us, betting on the Podraces, to Watto,
who's a lot better master than Gardulla, I think.
PADME : You're...a slave?

ANAKIN looks at PADME defiantly.

ANAKIN : I am a person! My name is Anakin.
PADME : I'm sorry. I don't fully understand. (looking around)This is a
strange world to me.

ANAKIN studies her intently.

ANAKIN : You are a strange girl to me.

JAR JAR pushes the nose on what appears to be a LITTLE DROID, and it
instantly comes to life, grows legs and arms, and starts marching around,
knocking over everything. JAR JAR hold on but can't stop it.

ANAKIN : (Cont'd) Hit the nose!

JAR JAR hits the nose, and the DROID collapses back into its original
state. ANAKIN and PADME laugh. ANAKIN watches PADME straighten her hair.

EXT. WATTO'S JUNK YARD - BEHIND SHOP - DAY

WATTO reads a small portable monitor he is holding. He stands before a
hyperdrive.

WATTO : ...Here it is...a T-14 hyperdrive generator!! Thee in luck, I'm the
only one hereabouts who has one...but thee might as well buy a new ship. It
would be cheaper, I think...Sying of which, how's thee going to pay for all
this?
QUI-GON : I have 20,000 Republic dataries.
WATTO : Republic credits?!? Republic credits are no good out here. I need
something more real...
QUI-GON : I don't have anything else. (raising his hand) But credits will
do fine.
WATTO : No they won'ta. QUI-GON, using his mind power, waves his hand
again.
QUI-GON : Credits will do fine.
WATTO : No, they won'ta. What you think you're some kinda Jedi, waving your
hand around like that? I'm a Toydarian. Mind tricks don'ta work on me-only
money. No money, no parts! No deal! And no one else has a T-14 hyperdrive,
I promise you that.

INT. WATTO'S JUNK SHOP - DAY

JAR JAR pulls a part out of a stack of parts to inspect it, and they all
come tumblimg down. He struggles to catch them, only to knock more down.
ANAKIN and PADME are oblivious.

ANAKIN : ...wouldn't have lasted long if I weren't so good at fixing
things. I'm making my own droid...

QUI-GON hurries into the shop, followed by ARTOO. QUI-GON : We're leaving.
JAR JAR follows QUI-GON. PADME gives ANAKIN a loving look.

PADME : I'm glad I met you,....ah...
ANAKIN : ...Anakin.
PADME : Anakin.
ANAKIN : Anakin Skywalker.
PADME : Padme Naberrie.

PADME turns, and ANAKIN looks sad as he watches her leave.

ANAKIN : I'm glad I met you too.

WATTO enters the junk yard, shaking his head.

WATTO : (subtitled) Ootmians! Tinka me chasa hopoe ma booty na nolia.
(Outlanders! They think because we live so far from the center, we don't
know nothing.)
ANAKIN : (subtitled) La lova num botaffa. (They seemed nice to me.) WATTO :
(subtitled) Fweepa niaga. Tolpa da bunky dunko. (Clean the racks, then you
can go home.)

ANAKIN lets out a "yipee" and runs out the back.

EXT. MOS ESPA - STREET - ALCOVE - DAY

QUI-GON, ARTOO, JAR JAR, and PADME have found a quiet spot between two
buildings. The busy street beyond is filled with dangerous looking
creatures. QUI-GON is talking on his com-link, while JAR JAR nervously
watches the street. OBI-WAN is in the main hold of the Naboo craft.

QUI-GON : ...Obi-Wan, you're sure there isn't anything of value left on
board?
OBI-WAN : (V.O) A few containers of supplies, the Queen's wardrobe, maybe.
Not enough for you to barter with. Not in the ammounts you're talking
about.
QUI-GON : All right. Another solution will present itself. I'll check back.

QUI-GON puts his comlink away and starts out into the main street. JAR JAR
grabs his arm.

JAR JAR : Noah gain...da beings hereabouts cawazy. Wesa be robbed un
crunched.
QUI-GON : Not likely. We have nothing of value, that's our problem.

EXT. MOS ESPA - STREET - MARKET - DAY

QUI-GON, PADME, JAR JAR, and ARTOO move out into the street. JAR JAR is
walking behind the others. They walk by an outdoor cafe filled with a rough
gang of aliens, one of which is especially ugly, SEBULBA, a spider-like
creature. JAR JAR stops for a moment in front of a stall selling dead frogs
hanging on a wire. He looks around to see if anyone is looknig, then sticks
out his tongue, and gets hold of one, pulling it into his mouth.
Unfortunately, the frog is tied tightly to the wire. The vendor suddenly
appears.

VENDOR : Hey, that will be seven truguts!!

JAR JAR opens his mouth in surprise, and the frog snaps away, ricochets
around the market, and lands in Sebulba's soup, splashing him. As JAR JAR
moves away from the VENDOR, SEBULBA jumps up on the table and grabs the
hapless Gungan.

SEBULBA : (subtitled) Chuba!! (You!!) JAR JAR : Who, mesa?? SEBULBA :
(subtitled) Ni chuba na?? (Is this yours??)

SEBULBA holds the frog up to the Gungan threateningly. SEVERAL OTHER
CREATURES start to gather. SEBULBA shoves JAR JAR to the ground. The Gungan
desperately tries to scramble to safety.

JAR JAR : (to himself) Why mesa always da one??
ANAKIN : (V.O) Because you're afraid.

JAR JAR turns to see ANAKNI pushing his way next to him. The boy stands up
to SEBULBA in a very self-assured way.

ANAKIN : (subtitled) Chess ko, Sebulba...Coo wolpa tooney rana. (Careful,
Sebulba...This one's very connected.)

SEBULBA stops his assault on JAR JAR and turns to ANAKIN.

SEBULBA : (subtitled) Tooney rana nu pratta dunko, shag. (Connected?? Whada
you mean, slave?)
ANAKIN : (subtitled) Oh da Hutt...cha porko ootman geesa...me teesa rodda
co pana pee choppa chawa. (As in Hutt...big time outlander, this one... I'd
hate to see you diced before we race again.)
SEBULBA : (subtitled) Neek me chowa, wermo, mo killee ma klounkee(Next time
we race, wermo, it will be the end of you!) Una noto wo shag, me wompity du
pom pom. (If you weren't a slave, I'd squash you right now.)

SEBULBA turns away.

ANAKIN : (subtitled) Eh, chee bana do mullee ra. (Yeah, it'd be a pity if
you had to pay for me.)

QUI-GON, PADME and ARTOO arrive.

ANAKIN : (Cont'd) Hi! Your buddy here was about to be turned into orange
goo. He picked a fight with a Dug. An especially dangerous Dug called
Sebulba.
JAR JAR : Nosir, nosir. Mesa hate crunchen. Dat's da last ting mesa wanten.
QUI-GON : Nevertheless, the boy is right...you were heading for trouble.
Thank you, my young friend.

PADME looks at ANAKINB and smiles; he smiles back. They start walking down
the crowded street.

JAR JAR : Mesa doen nutten!
ANAKIN : Fear attracts the fearful. He was trying to overcome his fear by
squashing you...be less afraid.
PADME : And that works for you.
ANAKIN : To a point. (he smiles)

EXT. TATOOINE - DESERT - SPACESHIP - DAY

OBI-WAN stands in front of the Naboo spacecraft as the wind picks up and
begins to whip at his robe. CAPTAIN PANAKA exits the ship and joins him.

OBI-WAN : This storm's going to slow them down.
CAPT. PANAKA : It looks pretty bad. We'd better seal the ship.

CAPTAIN PANAKA'S comlink sounds off.

CAPT. PANAKA : (Cont'd) Yes? CAPT. PANAKA : We'll be right there.

EXT. MOS ESPA - STREET - FRUIT STAND - DAY

ANAKIN and the GROUP stop at a fruit stand run by a jolly, but very poor,
old lady named JIRA.

ANAKIN : How are you feeling today, Jira?
JIRA : The heat's never been kind to me, you know, Annie!
ANAKIN : Guess what? I've found that cooling unit I've been searching for.
It's pretty beat up, but I'll have it fixed up for you in no time, I
promise.
JIRA : You're a fine boy, Annie.
ANAKIN : I'll take four pallies today. (to Padme) You'll like these...

ANAKIN reaches in his pocket and comes up with three coins. He drops one.
QUI-GON picks it up, revealing for a moment, his lightsabre.

ANAKIN : (Cont'd) Whoops, I thought I had more...Make thgat three, I'm not
hungry.

The wind picks up. SHOP OWNERS are starting to close up their shops as JIRA
gives them their pallies.

JIRA : Gracious, my bones are aching...storm's coming on, Annie. You'd
better get home quick.
ANAKIN : (to QUI-GON) Do you have shelter?
QUI-GON : We'll hed back to our ship.
ANAKIN : Is it far?
PADME : On the outskirts.
ANAKIN : You'll never reach the outskirts in time...sandstorms are very,
very dangerous. Come with me. Hurry!

The GROUP follows ANAKIN as he rushes down the windy street.

EXT. MOS ESPA - SLAVE QUARTERS - STREET - SANDSTORM - DAY

The wind is blowing hard as QUI-GON, JAR JAR, and PADME follow ANAKIN down
the street and into a slave hovel.

INT. ANAKIN'S HOVEL - MAIN ROOM - DAY

QUI-GON, JAR JAR, ARTOO, and PADME enter a small living space.

ANAKIN : Mom! Mom! I'm home.
JAR JAR : Dissen cozy.

Anakin's mother, SHMI SKYWALKER, a warm, friendly woman of forty, enters
from her work area and is startled to see the room full of people.

SHMI : Oh, my!! Annie, what's this?
ANAKIN : These are my friends, Mom. This is Padme, and...gee, I don't know
any of your names.
QUI-GON : I'm Qui-Gon Jinn, and this is Jar Jar Binks. ARTOO lets out a
little beep.
PADME : ...and our droid, Artoo-Detoo.
ANAKIN : I'm building a droid. You wanna see?
SHMI : Anakin! Why are they here?
ANAKIN : A sandstorm, Mom. Listen.

The wind HOWLS outside.

QUI-GON : Your son was kind enough to offer us shelter.
ANAKIN : Come on! Let me show you Threepio!

ANAKIN leads PADME into the other room. ARTOO follows, beeping all the way.
QUI-GON takes five small capsules from his utility belt and hands them to
SHMI.

QUI-GON : I have enough food for a meal.
SHMI : Oh, tank you. Thank you so much. I'm sorry if I was abrupt. I'll
never get used to Anakin's surprises.
QUI-GON : He's a very special boy. SHMI looks at him as if he's discovered
a secret.
SHMI : Yes, I know.

INT. ANAKIN'S HOVEL - BEDROOM - DAY

ANAKIN shows off his ANDROID, which is lying on his workbench. There is one
eye in the head; the body, arms, and legs have no outer coverings.

ANAKIN : Isn't he great?! He's not finished yet.
PADME : He's wonderful!
ANAKIN : You reall like him? He's a protocol droid...to help Mom. Watch!

ANAKIN pushes a switch, and the DROID sits up. Anakin rushes around, grabs
an eye and puts it in one of the sockets.

THREEPIO : How do you do, I am See-Threepio, Human Cyborg Relations. How
might I serve you?
PADME : He's perfect.
ANAKIN : When the storm is over, you can see my racer. I'm building a
Podracer!

PADME smiles at his enthusiasm. ARTOO lets out a flurry of beeps and
whistles.

THREEPIO : I beg your pardon....what do you mean I'm naked?

ARTOO BEEPS

THREEPIO : (Cont'd) My parts are showing? Oh, my goodness. How
embarrassing!

INT. NABOO SPACECRAFT - QUEENS CHAMBERS

AMIDALA, EIRTAE, RABE, and OBI-WAN watch a very bad transmission of a SIO
BIBBLE hologram.

BIBBLE : ...cut off all food supplies until you return...the death toll is
catastrophic...we must bow to their wishes, Your Highness...Please tell us
what to do! If you can hear us, Your Highness, you must contact me...

AMIDALA looks upset...almost nervous.

OBI-WAN : It's a trick. Send no reply... Send no transmission of any kind.

INT. ANAKIN'S HOVEL - MAIN ROOM - DAY

QUI-GON listens to his comlink. OBI-WAN is in the cockpit.

OBI-WAN : ...the Queen is upset...but absolutly no reply was sent.
QUI-GON : It sounds like bait to establish a connection trace.
OBI-WAN : What if it is true and the people are dying?
QUI-GON : Either way, we're running out of time.

EXT. CORUSCANT - BALCONY OVERLOOKING CITY - NIGHT

DARTH SIDIOUS and DARTH MAUL look out over the vast city.

DARTH MAUL : Tatooine is sparsely populated. If the trace was correct, I
will find them quickly, Master.
DARTH SIDIOUS : Move against the Jedi first...you will then have no
difficulty taking the Queen back to Naboo, where she will sign the treaty.
DARTH MAUL : At last we will reveal ourselves to the Jedi. At last we will
have revenge.
DARTH SIDIOUS : You have been well trained, my young apprentice, they will
be no match for you. It is too late for them to stop us now. Everything is
going as planned. The Republic will soon be in my command.

The hologram of DARTH MAUL fades off as DARTH SIDIOUS looks out over the
city. EXT. MOS ESPA - SANDSTORM - DAY

The giant sandstorm engulfs the town, including the Naboo spaceship on the
outskirts of the city center, where Watto's ship is; and the slave
quarters, where drifts of sand begin building up against Anakin's house.

INT. ANAKIN'S HOVEL - MAIN ROOM - DAY

QUI-GON, ANAKIN, SHMI, JAR JAR, and PADME are seated around a makeshift
table, having dinner as the wind howls outside.
JAR JAR slurps his soup rather loudly. Everyone looks at him. He turns a
little brighter red.

SHMI : All slaves have transmitters placed inside their bodies somewhere.
ANAKIN : I've been working on a scanner to try and locate them, but no
luck.
SHMI : Any attempt to escape...
ANAKIN : ...and they blow you up...poof!

PADME and JAR JAR are horrified.

JAR JAR : How wude.
PADME : I can't believe there is still slavery in the galaxy. The
Republic's anti-slavery laws...
SHMI : The Republic doesn't exist out here...we must survive on our own.

An awkward silence. ANAKIN attempts to end the embarrassment.

ANAKIN : Have you ever seen a Podrace?

PADME shakes her head no. She notices the concern of SHMI. JAR JAR snatches
some food from a bowl at the other end of the table with his tongue.
QUI-GON gives him a dirty look.

QUI-GON : They have Podracing on Malastare. Very fast, very dangerous.
ANAKIN : I'm the only human who can do it.

SHMI looks askance at her son.

ANAKIN : (Cont'd) Mom, what? I'm not bragging. It's true. Watto says he's
never heard of a human doing it.
QUI-GON : You must have Jedi reflexes if you race Pods.

ANAKIN smiles. JAR JAR attempts to snare another bit of food from the bowl
with his tongue, but QUI-GON, in a flash, grabs it between his thumb and
forefinger. JAR JAR is startled.

QUI-GON : (Cont'd) Don't do that again.

JAR JAR tries to acknowledge with some silly mumbling. QUI-GON lets go of
the tongue, and it snaps back into JAR JAR's mouth.

ANAKIN : I...I was wondering...something...
QUI-GON : What?
ANAKIN : Well, ahhh...you're a Jedi Knight, aren't you?
QUI-GON : What makes you think that?
ANAKIN : I saw your laser sword. Only Jedi carry that kind of weapon.

QUI-GON leans back and slowly smiles.

QUI-GON : Perhaps I killed a Jedi and stole it from him.
ANAKIN : I don't think so... No one can kill a Jedi Knight.
QUI-GON : I wish that were so...
ANAKIN. I had a dream I was a Jedi. I came back here and freed all the
slaves...have you come to free us?
QUI-GON : No, I'm afraid not...
ANAKIN : I think you have...why else would you be here?

QUI-GON thinks for a moment.

QUI-GON : I can see there's no fooling you...(leans forward) You mustn't
let anyone know about us...we're on our way to Coruscant, the central
system in the Republic, on a very important mission, and it must be kept
secret.
ANAKIN : Coruscant...wow...how did you end up here in the outer rim?
PADME : Our ship was damaged, and we're stranded here until we can repair
it.
ANAKIN : I can help! I can fix anything!
QUI-GON : I believe you can, but our first job is to aquire the parts we
need...
JAR JAR : Wit no-nutten mula to trade.
PADME : These junk dealers must have a weakness of some kind.
SHMI : Gambling. Everything here revolves around betting on those awful
races.
QUI-GON : Podracing... Greed can be a powerful ally.. if it's used
properly.
ANAKIN : I've built a racer! It's the fastest ever...There's a big race
tomorrow, on Boonta Eve. You could enter my pod. It's all but finished...
SHMI : Anakin, settle down. Watto won't let you...
ANAKIN : Watto doesn't know I've built it. (to Qui-Gon) You could make him
think it's your's, and you could get him to let me pilot it for you.

QUI-GON looks to SHMI. She is upset.

SHMI : I don't want you to race, Annie...It's awful. I die every time Watto
makes you do it.

ANAKIN : But Mom, I love it...and they need help...they're in trouble. The
prize money would more than pay for the parts they need. JAR JAR : Wesa ina
pitty bad goo.
GUI-GON : Your mother's right. Is there anyone friendly to the Republic who
might be able to help us?

SHMI shakes her head no.

ANAKIN : We have to help them, Mom...you said that the biggest problem in
the universe is no one helps each other...
SHMI : Anakin, don't...

JAR JAR belches. There is silence for a moment as they eat.

PADME : I'm sure Qui-Gon doesn't want to put your son in danger. We will
find another way...
SHMI : No, Annie's right, there is no other way... I may not like it, but
he can help you...he was meant to help you.
ANAKIN : Is that a yes? That is a yes!

The storm continues to rage outside the slave hovel.

EXT. MOS ESPA - JUNK DEALER PLAZA - DAY

The storm has passed. VENDORS and STREET PEOPLE clean up the mess and
rebuild their food stalls. JAR JAR sits on a box in front of Watto's parts
shop, watching all the activity with growing nervousness. ARTOO is standing
next to him. PADME stops QUI-GON as he is about to enter the shop.

PADME : Are you sure about this? Trusting our fate to a boy we hardly know.
The Queen will not approve.
QUI-GON : The Queen does not need to know.
PADME : Well, I don't approve.

QUI-GON turns and starts into the shop.

INT. WATTO'S JUNK SHOP - DAY

WATTO and ANAKIN are in the middle of an animated discussion in Huttese.

WATTO : Patta go bolla!
ANKAIN : No batta!
WATTO : Pedunky. Maa kee cheelya.
ANAKIN : Bayno, Bayno!

QUI-GON walks in, and WATTO and ANAKIN join him.

WATTO : The boy tells me you wanta sponser hi insa race. You can't afford
parts. How can you do this? Not on Republic credits, I think. (he laughs)
QUI-GON : My ship will be the entry fee.

QUI-GON pulls a small object that looks like a watch out of his pocket, and
a hologram of the Naboo spacecraft appears about a foot long in front of
WATTO. He studies it.

WATTO : Not bad...not bad...a Nubian.
QUI-GON : It's in good order, except for the parts we need.
WATTO : ...but what would the boy ride? He smashed up my Pod in the last
race. It will take some time to fix it.

ANAKIN is embarrassed and steps forward.

ANAKIN : Ahhhh....it wasn't my fault really...Sebulba flashed me with his
vent ports. I actually saved the Pod...mostly.
WATTO : (laughing) That you did. The boy is good, no doubts there.
QUI-GON : I have...acquired a Pod in a game of chance. "The fastest ever
built."
WATTO : I hope you didn't kill anyone I know for it. (laughs) So, you
supply the Pod and the entry fee; I supply the boy. We split the winnings
fifty-fifty, I think.
QUI-GON : Fifty-fifty!?! If it's going to be fifty-fifty, I suggest you
front the cash for the entry. If we win, you keep all the winnings, minus
the cost of the parts I need...If we lose, you keep my ship.

WATTO thinks about this. ANAKIN tries not to be nervous.

QUI-GON : (Cont'd) Either way, you win.
WATTO : (subtitled) Deal! Yo bana pee ho-tah, meedee ya. (Your friend is a
follish one, methinks.)

EXT. NABOO SPACECRAFT - TATOOINE DESERT - DAY

OBI-WAN stands outside the Naboo spacecraft, speaking into his comlink.
QUI-GON is on the back porch of the hovel.

OBI-WAN : What if this plan fails, Master? We could be stuck here for a
long time.
QUI-GON : (V.O) A ship without a power supply will not get us anywhere, and
there is something about this boy...

EXT MOS ESPA - SLAVE QUARTERS - PORCH - DAY

QUI-GON puts the comlink away as SHMI comes onto the porch

PADME, ANAKIN, JAR JAR, and ARTOO work on the engines of the Podracer in
the courtyard below.

QUI-GON : You should be proud of your son. He gives without any thought of
reward.
SHMI : He knows nothing of greed. He has...
QUI-GON : He has special powers.
SHMI : Yes...
QUI-GON : He can see things before they happen. That's why he appears to
have such quick reflexes. It is a Jedi trait.
SHMI : He deserves better than a slave's life.
QUI-GON : The Force is unusally strong with him, that much is clear. Who
was his father?
SHMI : There was no father, that I know of...I carried him, I gave him
birth...I can't explain what happened. Can you help him?
QUI-GON : I'm afraid not. Had he been born in the Republic, we would have
identified him early, and he would have become Jedi, no doubt...he has the
way. But it's too late for him now, he's too old.

EXT. MOS ESPA - SLAVE QUARTERS - BACK YARD - DAY

KITSTER (a young boy about Anakin's age), SEEK (a boy of ten), AMEE (a girl
of six), and WALD (a Greedo Type, six years old) join ANAKIN, JAR JAR,
ARTOO, and PADME securing some wiring.

ANAKIN : Padme and Jar Jar, this is my friend Kitster, and seek, Amee, and
Wald.

All whistle, hoot, and speak a greeting.

KITSTER : Wow, a real Astro Droid...how'd you get so lucky?
ANAKIN : This isn't the half of it. I'm entered in the Boonta Race
tomorrow!
KITSTER : What? With this??
WALD : (subtitled) Annie, Jesko na joka. 9You are such a joke, Annie.)
AMEE : You've been working on that thing for years. It's never going to
run.
SEEK : Come on, let's go play ball. Keep it up, Annie, and you're gonna be
bug squash.

SEEK, WALD, and AMEE take off, laughing. JAR JAR is fiddling with one of
the energy binder plates.

ANAKIN : Hey! Jar Jar! Stay away from those energy binders...
JAR JAR : Who, mesa?
ANAKIN : If your hand gets caught in that beam, it will go numb for hours.

JAR JAR peeks at the energy plate; it makes a little electronic pop, zaps
him in the mouth and jumps back. JAR JAR tries to say something, but his
mouth is numb and his words are garbled.

JAR JAR : Ouch-dats muy bigo Oucho. (Gibberish)
KITSTER : But you don't even know if this thing will run.
ANAKIN : It will.

QUI-GON approaches the GROUP and gives ANAKIN a small battery. JAR JAR gets
his hand caught in the afterburner and tries to tell Anakin, but can't get
words out that make sense.

QUI-GON : I think it's time we found out. Use this power charge. ANAKIN :
Yes, sir!!

ANAKIN jumps into the little capsule behind the two giant engines. He puts
the power pack back into the dashboard. EVERYONE backs away, except for JAR
JAR who calls for help. Finally PADME frees him and the engines ignite with
a ROAR. EVERYONE cheers.

EXT. MOS ESPA - SLAVE QUARTERS - PORCH - DAY

SHMI, watching from the porch, smiles sadly.

EXT. SLAVE QUARTERS - BALCONY - NIGHT

ANAKIN sits on the balcony rail of his hovel as QUI-GON tends to a cut. The
BOY leans back to look at the vast blanket of stars in the sky.

QUI-GON : Sit still, Annie. Let me clean this cut.
ANAKIN : There are so many! Do they all have a system of planets?
QUI-GON : Most of them.
ANAKIN : Has anyone been to them all?
QU-IG0N : (laughs) Not likely.
ANAKIN : I want to be the first one to see them all... Ouch!

QUI-GON wipes a patch of blood off ANAKIN'S arm.

QUI-GON : There, good as new...

SHMI yells from inside the hovel.

SHMI : (O.S.) Annie, bedtime!

QUI-GON scrapes ANAKIN's blood onto a comlink chip.

ANAKIN : What are you doing?
QUI-GON : Checking your blood for infections.
ANAKIN : I've never seen...
SHMI : (O.S.) Annie! I'm not goiung to tell you again!
QUI-GON : Go on, you have a big day tomorrow. (beat) Goodnight.

ANAKIN rolls his eyes and runs into the hovel. QUI-GON takes the blood
stained chip and inserts it into the comlink, then calls OBI-WAN.

QUI-GON : (Cont'd) Obi-Wan...
OBI-WAN : Yes, Master.
QUI-GON : Make an analysis of this blood sample I'm sending you.
OBI-WAN : Wait a minute...
QUI-GON : I need a midi-chlorian count.
OBI-WAN : All right. I've got it.
QUI-GON : What are your readings?
OBI-WAN : Something must be wrong with the transmission.
QUI-GON : Here's a signal check.
OBI-WAN : Strange. The transmission seems to be in good order, but the
reading's off the chart...over twenty thousand.
QUI-GON : (almost to himself) That's it then.
OBI-WAN : Even Master Yoda doesn't have a midi-chlorian count that high!
QUI-GON : No Jedi has.
OBI-WAN : What does it mean?
QUI-GON : I'm not sure.

The JEDI KNIGHT looks up and sees SHMI in the doorway watching him.
Embarrassed, she goes back into the kitchen while QUI-GON ponders the
situation.

EXT. TATOOINE - DESERT MESA - NIGHT

The sinister looking Sith spacecraft lands on top of a desert mesa at dus,
scattering a herd of banthas. DARTH MAUL walks to the edge of the mesa and
studies the landscape with a pair of electrobinoculars. He picks out the
lights of three different cities in the distance, then pushes buttons on
his electronic armband.

Six football-sized PROBE DROIDS float out of the ship and head off in three
different directions toward the cities.

DARTH MAUL stands on the mesa and watches them through his
electrobinoculars.

EXT. MOS ESPA - SLAVE QUARTERS - PORCH - SUNRISE

Padme exits the hovel.

EXT. MOS ESPA - SLAVE QUARTERS - BACK YARD - SUNRISE

As the twin suns rise, ARTOO is busy painting the racing Pod. ANAKIN is
asleep. PADME passes ARTOO.

PADME : I hope you're about finished.

ARTOO whistles a positive reply. PADME sees KITSTER riding toward them on
an EOPIE, a strange camel-lile creature. He is leading a second EOPIE
behind him. PADME goes over to ANAKIN. He looks very vulnerable as he
sleeps. She watches him, then touches him on the cheek. ANAKIN wakes up,
yawns, and looks at her, a little puzzled.

ANAKIN : You were in my dream...you were leading a huge army into battle.
PADME : I hope not; I hate fighting. Your mother wants you to come in and
clean up. We have to leave soon. ANAKIN stands up and stretches just as
KITSTER arrives.

ANAKIN : Hook 'em up, Kitster. (to Padme) I won't be long. Where's Qui-Gon?

PADME : He and Jar Jar left already. They're with Watto at the arena.

EXT. MOS ESPA - ARENA - MAIN HANGER - DAY

RACE CREWS mill about outside the Main Hanger.

INT. MOS ESPA - ARENA - MAIN HANGER - DAY

The hanger is a large building with a dozen or so Podracers being readied
for the race. ALIEN CREWS and PILOTS rush about, making last minute fixes
on their vehicles. WATTO, QUI-GON, and JAR JAR walk through the activity.

WATTO : ...I want to see your spaceship the moment the race is over.
QUI-GON : Patienc, my blue friend. You'll have your winnings before the
suns set, and we'll be far away from here.
WATTO : Not if your ship belongs to me, I think...I warn you, no funny
business.
QUI-GON : You don't think Anakin will win?

WATTO stops before an orange racer. Sitting to one side, having his
shoulders and neck massaged by TWIN YOBANAS, is SEBULBA.

WATTO : Don't get me wrongo. I have great faith in the boy. He's a credit
to your race, but Sebulba there is going to win, I think.
QUI-GON : Why?
WATTO : He always wins. (laughs) I'm betting heavily on Sebulba.
QUI-GON : I'll take that bet.
WATTO : (suddenly stops laughing) What??!! What do you mean?
QUI-GON : I'll wager my new racing pod against...say...the boy and his
mother.
WATTO : A Pod for slaves. I don't think so...well, poerhaps. Just one...the
mother, maybe...the boy isn't for sale.
QUI-GON : The boy is small, he can't be worth much.

WATTO shakes his head.

QUI-GON : (Cont'd) For the fastest Pod ever built?!

WATTO shakes his head again.

QUI-GON : (Cont'd) Both, or no bet.
WATTO : No Pod's worth two slaves...not by a long shot...one slave or
nothing.
QUI-GON : The boy, then...

WATTO pulls out a small cube from his pocket.

WATTO : We'll let fate decide. Blue it's the boy, red his mother...

WATTO tosses the cube down. QUI-GON lifts his hand slightly; it turns blue.
QUI-GON smiles. WATTO is angry.

WATTO : (Cont'd) You won the small toss, outlander, bou you won't win the
race, so...it makes little difference.

ANAKIN and PADME enter the hanger on one of the EOPIES, pulling an engine.
KITSTER, on the other EOPIE, is pulling another engine. With THREEPIO
walking alongside, ARTOO trundles behind, pulling the Pod with SHMI sitting
on it. WATTO passes ANAKIN as he leaves.

WATTO : (Cont'd) (subtitled) Bonapa keesa pateeso, o wanna meetee chobodd.
(Better stop your friends betting, or I'll end up owning him, too.)

WATTO walks off, laughing.

ANAKIN : What did he mean by that?

QUI-GON : I'll tell you later.

ARTOO beeps at THREEPIO.

THREEPIO : Oh my! Space travel sounds rather perilous.

ARTOO emits a series of beeps.

THREEPIO : I can assure you they will never get me onto one of those
dreadful starships!
KITSTER : (to Anakin) This is so wizard! I'm sure you'll do it this time,
Annie.
PADME : Do what?
KITSTER : Finish the race, of course!
PADME : You've never won a race?
ANAKIN : Well...not exactly...
PADME : Not even finished?!

ANAKN looks sheepish.

ANAKIN : ...but Kitster's right, I will this time.
QUI-GON : Of course you will.

EXT. MOS ESPA - STREET - DAY

One of Darth Maul's PROBE DROIDS slowly floats down the main street of
Tatooine. It looks in shops and studies PEOPLE as it searches for OBI-WAN,
QI-GON, or the QUEEN.

EXT. MOS ESPA - DESERT RACE ARENA - DAY

An EXTREME HIGH WIDE ANGLE reveals a vast arena in the Tatooine desert. A
large semi-circular amphitheatre that holds at least a hundred thousand
people dominates the landscape. Large viewing platforms loom over the
racetrack. INT. MOS ESPA - ARENA ANNOUNCER'S BOX - DAY (FX)

A two-headed ANNOUNCER describes the scene.

FODE/BEED : -
A: Toogi! Toogie! (Greetings) Toong mee cha kulkah du Boonta magi! tah oos
azalus ooval Poddraces. (We have perfect weather today for the Boonta
classic. The most hazardous of all Podraces.)
B : That's absolutly right. And a big turnout here, from all corners of the
Outer Rim territories. I see the contestants are making their way out onto
the starting grid.

EXT. MOS ESPA - DESERT RACE ARENA - DAY

On the left side of the tracks across from the grandstands, a line of
Podracers emerges from the large hanger, surrounded by several CREW
MEMBERS. Pods are pulled by a wide variety of CREATURES and are led by
aliens carrying flags. The PILOTS stand facing the royal box.

FODE/BEED : -
(O.S) A : La Yma beestoo (Yes, there they are!)
B : I see Ben Quadinaros from the Tund system.
A : ...eh Gasgano doowa newpa Ord Petrovia! (And Gasgano in thenew Ord
Pedrovia.)
B : Two time winner, Boles Roor...
A : Poo tula moosta, woe grane champio Sebulba du Pixelito! Splastyleeya
bookie ookie!! (On the front line the reigning champion, Sebulba from
Pixelito. By far the favorite today.)
B : And a late entry, Anakin Skywalker, a local boy.
A : Wampa peedunkee unko ( I hope he has better luck this time.)
B : I see the flaggers are moving onto the track.

EXT. MOS ESPA - ARENA - GRANDSTAND - DAY

Colorful canopies shade some of the SPECTATORS. VENDORS sell barbecued
creature parts and colorful drinks.

EXT. MOS ESPA - ARENA - ROYAL BOX - DAY (FX)

All the PILOTS bow from the waist as JABBA THE HUTT enters the box and
waves to the crowd.

FODE/BEED : -
A : O grandio lust, Jabba Du Hutt, amu intoe tah parena. (His honor, our
glorious host, Jabba the Hutt has entered the arena.)

The crowd ROARS. SEVERAL OTHER SLUG-LIKE HUTTS follow, along with humans
and aliens. Several SLAVE GIRLS on a chain are led alongside JABBA.

JABBA : (subtitled) Chowbaso! Tam ka chee Boonta rulee ya, kee madda
hodrudda du wundee. (Welcome!) Sebulba tuta Pixelito...

EXT. MOS ESPA - ARENA - STARTING GRID - DAY

SEBULBA, who is right next to ANAKIN, stands and waves to his fans. A small
pep band plays as his fans wave and cheer.

KITSTER attaches the giant engins to Anakin's Pod with a long cable. SHMI
gives ANAKIN a big hug and kiss. She looks him right in the eye.

SHMI : Be safe.
ANAKIN : I will, Mom. I promise.

She leaves as ANAKIN checks the cable hitches.

JABBA : ...Mawhonic tuta Hok, Teemto Pagalies tuta Moonus Mandel, Anakin
SKywalker tuta Tatoonine....

The CROWD YELLS. ANAKIN waves to the crowd, as JABBA continues with his
introductions. SEBULBA moves over to one of Anakin's engines. KITSTER and
JAR JAR unhitch the EOPIES, and KITSTER leads them away. ARTOO beeps that
everything is OK. JAR JAR pats ANAKIN on the back.

JAR JAR : Dis berry loony, Annie. May da guds be kind, mesa palo.

PADME comes up and gives ANAKIN a little kiss on the cheeek. SEBULBA bangs
on a part protruding from Anakin's engine. He looks around to see if anyone
has noticed.

PADME : You carry all our hopes.
ANAKIN : I won't let you down.

PADME moves away as SEBULBA edges his way next to ANAKIN and gives him a
sinister grin.

SEBULBA : Bazda wahota, shag. Dobiella Nok. Yoka to Bantha poodoo. 9You
won't walk away from this one, slave scum! You're Bantha poodoo.)
ANAKIN : (subtitled) Cha skrundee da pat, sleemo. (Don't count on it,
slime-ball.)

ANAKIN looks the evil SEBULBA in the eye with a cold stare. QUI-GON
approaches, and SEBULBA backs off toward his racer.

JABBA : (sutitled)...Ka bazza kundee hodrudda! (...Let the challenge
begin!)

The CROWD lets out a LOUD CHEER. QUI-GON helps ANAKIN into his Pod. The boy
straps himself into the tiny racer.

QUI-GON : Are you all set, Annie? (Anakin nods) Remember, concentrate on
the moment. Feel. Don't think. Trust your instincts. (he smiles) May the
Force be with you.

QUI-GON steps away as ANAKIN puts on his goggles. The PILOTS flip switches,
and powerful energy binders shoot between the engines. ANAKIN flips a
switch, and his engine starts. The incredible ROAR of high-powered engines
igniting echoes throughout the arena. One driver, ODY MANDRELL, yells at a
droid (DUM-4) to get away from the front of his engine. The crowd is tense.

EXT. MOS ESPA - ARENA - STARTING GRID - DAY

The giant power-house engines torque as the PILOTS gun them. The PILOTS
flip switches, and poerful energy binders shoot between the engines. Aliens
carrying large flags move off the track. JAR JAR covers his eyes.

JAR JAR : Mesa no watch. Dissen ganna be messy!
FODE/BEED : -
A : Ya pawa culka doe rundee! (The power couplings are being activated)
B : Hey, it looks like they're clearing the grid.

EXT. MOS ESPA - ARENA - VIEWING PLATFORM - DAY

SHMI looks nervously to QUI-GON as he enters a veiwing platform. PADME and
JAR JAR are already on board. The platform rises like an elevator.

SHMI : Is he nervous?
QUI-GON : He's fine.
PADME : You Jedi are far too reckless. The Queen...
QUI-GON : The Queen trusts my judgment, young handmaiden. You should too.
PADME : You assume too much.

EXT. MOS ESPA - ARENA ANNOUNCER'S BOX - DAY (FX)

FODE/BEED : -
B : Start your engines.

The earth-pounding ROAR of the engines revving is deafening.

EXT. MOS ESPA - ARENA - ROYAL BOX - DAY (FX)

Jabba bites off the head of a frog and spits it at a gong, signaling the
start of the race.

EXT. MOS ESPA - ARENA - STARTING GRID - DAY

On a bridge over the track, a great green light at the center flashes. The
Podracers shoot forward with a high-pitches scream. ANAKIN'S engine floods
and coughs - then dies. All the other Podracers except one swerve around
him and dissapear down the track. The slave boy struggles to get his racer
started. The two-headed announcer reports.

FODE/BEED : - (O.S.)
A : An dare ovv! (And they're off!)
B : Oh...wait. Little Skywalker has stalled.

PADME and JAR JAR are very dissapointed with ANAKIN. QUI-GON puts his arm
around a very worried SHMI to comfort her. Finally, Anakin's engines
ignite. He zooms away after the receeding pack of competitors, leaving one
quadra-Pod racer still trying to get started. The two-headed ANNOUNCER
describes the race as it progresses.

FODE/BEED : - (O.S.)
B : And there goes Skywalker... He'll be hard pressed to catch up with the
leaders today.

EXT. MOS ESPA - RACETRACK - DAY (FX)

The Podracers fly across the desert. SEBULBA is running neck and neck with
MAWHONIC. They round the first turn in the track, side by side. SEBULBA
drives his Pod into his rival, forcing him into the wall of a large rock
formation. MAWHONIC crashes in a spectacular display of fire and smoke.
ANAKIN is much faster than the back-end stragglers and passes them easily.
One of the drivers, GASGANO, won't let ANAKIN by. ANAKIN tries to pass him
on one side and is cut off. He then tries to pass him on the other side
ansd is cut off. As they come up on a cliff drop-off, ANAKIN backs off,
then guns it as GASGANO goes over the cliff. ANAJIN accelerates so fast
that he sails right over the top of GASGANO and speeds away.
Four TUSKEN RAIDERS perched above the race course fire their rifles at the
Pods racing in the canyon below them. One shot ricochets off the back of
Anakin's Pod.

FODE/BEED : -
B : Looks like a few Tusken Riaders have campe out on the canyon dune turn.

EXT. MOS ESPA - ARENA - VIEWING PLATFORM - DAY

JABBA THE HUTT and the crowd watch the progress of the race on small,
hand-held view screens. JAR JAR is looking over the shoulder of a strange
alien named FANTA.

JAR JAR : Where's Skywalker?

FANTA moves the view screen out of Jar Jar's view. PADME, SHMI, and QUI-GON
watch another screen and look worried.
ARTOO, down in the pits with KITSTER, lets out a worried sigh. The driver
of the quadra-Pod looks worried.

EXT. MOS ESPA - RACETRACK - DAY (FX)

ANAKIN is powering around corners and over hills and cliffs, passing other
racers right and left. SEBULBA is in the lead. He is being challenged by
another racer, XELBREE.
SEBULBA slows a little, and as XELBREE pulls alongside, he opens a side
vent on the racer's engine and the exhaust starts to cut through the
alien's engine.
The blast cuts along the engine until finally it EXPLODES. SEBULBA deftly
veers away.
ANAKIN works his way through a dense mass of racers as they zoom over a
dune sea, kicking up dust. His Pod shakes violently as he goes over a jump.
One of the Podracers, ODY, catches one of his engines in the sand, and the
whole thing EXPLODES.

EXT. MOS ESPA - ARENA - VIEWING PLATFORM - DAY

QUI-GON sits quietly, meditating. PADME and SHMI search the landscape for
any sign of the racers. JAR JAR is still annoying FANTA for information.
The crowd SCREAMS. WATTO is laughing with his friends, confident in
Anakin's defeat.
The quadra-Pod engines start just as the racers come around the corner. The
DRIVER, BEN QUADINAROS, puts it in gear, and the four engines go off in all
directions, EXPLODING in a spectacular display. The Pod drops to the ground
as SEBULBA enters the arena, closely followed by all the OTHER RACERS.
KITSTER strains to see as ARTOO beeps excitedly. The announcer continues.

FODE/BEED : - (O.S)
B ; There goes Quadinaros' power couplings.
A : Sebulba! Ka pa me cheespa wata! (Here comes Sebulba in record time.)

QUI-GON, PADME, SHMI, and JAR JAR yell for joy as ANAKIN passes. JAR JAR is
very nervous and pounds on the back of his alien neighbor, FANTA. JAR JAR :
What gooie-on?
FANTA : Bug off.

Lap two. SEBULBA and the pack race past the main arena. The crowd stands
and YELLS as the Podracers scream off into the distance. QUI-GON and PADME
look worried.

JAR JAR : He musta crash-ud.
PADME : Here he comes!

EXT. MOS ESPA - ARENA - PIT AREA - DAY (FX)

ARTOO lets out an excited whistle, as KITSTER yells.

THREEPIO : He has to complete two more circuits? Oh dear!

EXT. MOS ESPA - RACETRACK - DAY (FX)

Sure enough, coming around the bend is ANAKIN, quickly gaining on the pack.
The two-headed announcer describes the action. The crowd goes wild.

FODE/BEED : - (O.S.)
B : It looks like Skywalker is moving up through the field. He's in...
A : Steeth pa nagoola! (Sixth place, not bad.)

ANAKIN continues to gain on the pack. Tension for SHMI and PADME is
unbearable.
ODY stops in the pits. Droids work on his engines. DUM-4 stands in front of
the engine and is sucked in, causing the engine to die. DUM-4 is spit out
the back of the engine, very bent up. The engine lets out one final wheeze,
then EXPLODES in a puff of smoke.

FODE/BEED : - (O.S.)
A : Ody Mandrell! Coona wa wunda dunko! (Ody Mandrell into the pits for
some attention.)
ODY : Droids!

TERTER is getting close to SEBULBA, who purposely breaks a small part off
his Pod, sending it into Terter's engine, causing him to veer into ANAKIN,
and unhooks one of the main straps on Anakin's engines that links the Pod
to his engines.
ANAKIN struggles to keep control of the little Pod. It whips about wildly.
As the Pod swings near the broken engine strap, ANAKIN grabs for it.
Finally, he catches the strap and manages to unhook it to the Pod.
SEBULBA cuts the engine of OBITOKI with his side exhaust, and the racer
crashes with a cloud of dust. A THIRD RACER, HABBA, flie into the cloud of
dust and crashes into OBITOKI. ANAKIN rounds a corner and heads into the
cloud of smoke. He hits a part of one of the engines but regains control.

FODE/BEED : - (O.S.)
B :At the start of the third and final lap, Sebulba is in the lead, closely
followed by Skywalker...

ANAKIN finally catches up with SEBULBA, and runs neck and neck over the
rough terrain. JAR JAR, QUI-GON, SHMI, and PADME all SCREAM s ANAKIN comes
through the arena. The lights in the tower indicate that this is the third
and last lap. WATTO begins to worry.
SEBULBA uses his side exhaust port to try to cut through Anakin's engines.
ANAKIN manages to avoid having his engine disabled but is forced off
course.

FODE/BEED : - (O.S.)
B : Skywalker is forced onto the service ramp!
A : Oh noah!

On a tight corner, ANAKIN dives to the inside and takes the lead.

FODE BEED : - (O.S.)
B : Amazing... a controlled thrust and he's back on course! What a move!

SEBULBA is furious. He stay's right on Anakin's tail, crowding him and
pushing him through the turns.
SEBULBA pushes ANAKIN harder, and the young boy has a difficult time
keeping control. One of the parts on Anakin's engines begins to shake
loose. ANAKIN sees it and switches over to an auxiliary system. While he is
trying to accomplish this maneuver, SEBULBA races past him.
ANAKIN tries to get around SEBULBA, to no avail. Every move ANAKIN makes,
SEBULBA is able to block.
Finally, ANAKIN fakes a move into the inside as he usually does, then tries
to go around SEBULBA on the outside. They race sid by side down the final
stretch of the track.

FODE/BEED : - (O.S.)
B : He's catching Sebulba.
A : Inkabunga. (Incredible!)

SEBULBA veers toward ANAKIN and bangs into his Pod. He crashes into ANAKIN
over and over. The young boy struggles to maintain control as the steering
rods on the two Pods become hooked together. SEBULBA laughs at ANAKIN.

FODE/BEED : - (O.S.)
B : That little human being is out of his mind.
A : Punda tah punda! (They're neck and neck!)
B : They're side by side!
A : Bongo du bongu! (Shoulder to shoulder!)

As they head for the final stretch, ANAKIN fights to unlock the steering
rods by trying to pull away from SEBULBA. The strain on the steering rod is
tremendous. Suddenly, ANAKIN's steering arm breaks, and his Pos starts
spinning.
The release of tension sends SEBULBA into an ancient statue. One engine
EXPLODES, then the other. SEBULBA skids through the fire-balls, blackened,
but unhurt. He slides to a smoking stop, gets out of his racer, and throws
what's left of a shifter arm on the ground. Suddenly he realizes his pants
are on fire, and he struggles to put them out. ANAKIN flies through the
EXPLOSION as the crowd stands, CHERRING. PADME and JAR JAR jump up and down
with excitment, PADME screaming for joy. ARTOO and KITSTER whistle
hysterically. QUI-GON and SHMI smile. ANAKIN races over the finish line,
the winner.

INT. MOS ESPA - ARENA ANNOUNCERS BOX - DAY (FX)

The two-headed announcer excitedly calls the finish.

FODE/BEED : -
B : It's Skywalker! The crowd are going nuts! Oh Ah Oh Ah (rock head in
tandem with partner)

EXT. MOS ESPA - ARENA - DAY

As ANAKIN stops the Podracer, KISTER turns up, and they embrace. Hundreds
of SPECTATORS join them and put ANAKIN on their shoulders, marching off,
CHEERING AND CHANTING. Darth Maul's PROBE DROIDS move through the crowd.

INT. MOS ESPA - ARENA - PRIVATE BOX - DAY

Several ALIENS leave Watto's box, laughing and counting their money. WATTO
sees QUI-GON standing in the doorway.

WATTO : You! You swindled me! You knew the boy was going to win! Somehow
you knew it! I lost everything.

WATTO flies up to QUI-GON and puts his face right up against QUI-GON's.
QUI-GON simply smiles.

QUI-GON : Whenever you gamble, my freind, eventually you'll lose. Bring the
parts to the main hanger. I'll come by your shop later so you can release
the boy.
WATTO : You can't have him! It wasn't a fair bet!
QUI-GON : Would you like to discuss it with the Hutts...I'm sure they can
settle this.
WATTO : No, no! I want no more of your tricks! Take him!

The SITH PROBE DROID watches with great interest.

EXT. MOS ESPA - ARENA - MAIN HANGER - DAY

The Main Hanger is almost deserted as RACERS depart.

INT. MOS ESPA - ARENA - MAIN HANGER - DAY

JAR JAR gives ANAKIN a great hug, then PADME gives him a hug, then SHMI.

ANAKIN : Ah, gee...enough of this...
SHMI : It's so wonderful, Annie. You have brought hope to those who have
none. I'm so very proud of you...
PADME : We owe you everything.
ANAKIN : Just feeling this good was worth it.

In the background, QUI-GON has harnessed the EOPIES to containers full of
parts.

QUI-GON : Padme. Jar Jar, let's go, we've got to get these parts back to
the ship.

The GROUP walks over to QUI-GON and the EOPIES.
PADME climbs on behind QUI-GON. JAR JAR swings up onto the second EOPIE,
only to slwly slide off the other side. ARTOO whistles. ANAKIN and SHMI
wave as they ride off.

QUI-GON : (Cont'd) I'll return the eopies by midday.

EXT. TATOOINE - DESERT - NABOO SPACECRAFT - DAY

ARTOO cruises ahead of QUI-GON and PADME, who are riding one of the EOPIES;
JAR JAR ridses the other. They stop in front of the sleek Naboo spacecraft.
OBI-WAN comes out of the ship and joins them.

QUI-GON : Start getting this hyperdrive generator installed. I'm going
back...some unfinished business. I won't be long.
OBI-WAN : Why do I sense we've picked up another pathetic life form...?
QUI-GON : It's the boy who's responsible for getting those parts.

On a hill far overlooking the Naboo spacecraft, the SITH PROBE DROID turns
and speeds away.

EXT. TATOOINE - STREET - SLAVE QUARTERS - DAY

ANAKIN and A GREEDO are rolling around on the floor, fighting. About A
DOZEN OR SO KIDS are standing around them, yelling. Suddenly, a long shadow
is cast over the TWO BOYS; they stop fighting and look up. QUI-GOMN is
towering above them. KITSTER is with them.

QUI-GON : What's this?
ANAKIN : He said I cheated.
QUI-GON : Did you?
ANAKIN : No!
QUI-GON : Do you still think he cheated?
GREEDO : Yes.
QUI-GON : Well, Annie. You know the truth... You will have to tolerate his
opinion, fighting won't change it.

QUI-GON moves off down the street. Anakin follows. The GREEDO wanders over
to WALD who has been watching the goings-on.

WALD : Keep this up, Greedo, and you're gonna come to a bad end.

Farther down the street QUI-GON and ANAKIN head toward Anakin's hovel.
QUI-GON takes a handful of credits from beneath his poncho and hands them
to the boy.

QUI-GON : These are yours. We sold the Pod.
ANAKIN : (suddenly beaming) Yes!

INT. ANAKIN'S HOVEL - MAIN ROOM - DAY

SHMI is cleaning up as ANAKIN bursts through the door, followed by QUI-GON.

ANAKIN : Mom, he sold the Pod. Look at all the money we have!

ANAKIN pulls a bag of coins out of his pocket.

SHMI : Oh, my goodness, That's wonderful.
QUI-GON : And Anakin has been freed.
ANAKIN : What?!?
QUI-GON : You're no longer a slave.

ANAKIN jumps for joy! SHMI is stunned.

ANAKIN : Did you hear that, Mom? (to Qui-Gon) Was that part of the prize,
or what?
QUI-GON : Let's just say Watto has learned an important lesson about
gambling.
SHMI : Now you can make your dreams come true, Annie. You're free! (turns
to Qui-Gon) Will you take him with you? Is he to become a Jedi?
QUI-GON : Our meeting was not a coincidence. Nothing happens by accident.
You are strong with the Force, but you may not be accepted by the Coucil.
ANAKIN : A Jedi! Mighty blasters, you mean I get to go with you in your
starship and everything?!

QUI-GON kneels down to the boy.

QUI-GON : Anakin, training to be a Jedi will not be a easy challenge. And
if you succeed, it will be a hard life.
ANAKIN : But it's what I want. What I've always dreamed about. Can I go,
Mom?!
QUI-GON : This path has been placed for you, Annie; the choice to take it
is yours alone.

ANAKIN thinks, looks to his mother, then to QUI-GON.

ANAKIN : I want to go.
QUI-GON : Then, pack your things. We haven't much time.
ANAKIN : Yipee!!

ANAKIN hugs his mom and starts for the other room, then stops. SHMI and
QUI-GON give each other a knowing look. ANAKIN has realized something.

ANAKIN : (Cont'd) What about Mom? Is she free too? You're coming, aren't
you, Mom
QUI-GON : I tried to free your mother, Annie, but Watto wouldn't have it.
ANAKIN : But the money from selling...
QUI-GON : It's not nearly enough.

SHMI comes over to her son and sits next to him. Taking both of his hands
in hers, she draws him close.

SHMI : Son, my place is here. My future is here. It is time for you to let
go...to let go of me. I cannot go with you.
ANAKIN : I want to stay with you. I don't want things to change.
SHMI : You can't stop change any more than you can stop the suns from
setting. Listen to your feelings; Annie, you know what's right.

ANAKIN takes a deep breath, drops his head. QUI-GON and SHMI exchange a
look of concern. When ANAKIN raises up, there are tears in his eyes.

ANAKIN : I'm going to miss you so much, Mom...
SHMI : I love you, Annie...now hurry.

ANAKIN and SHMI hug. ANAKIN runs into the other room.

SHMI : (Cont'd) Thank you.
QUI-GON : I will watch after him. You have my word. Will you be all right?
SHMI : He was in my life for such a short time.

INT. ANAKIN'S HOVEL - SECOND ROOM - DAY

ANAKIN has thrown the last of his things in a small backpack. As he leaves,
he stops and pushes the button that wakes his droid up. THREEPIO stares at
him blankly.

ANAKIN : Well, Threepio, I'm free...and I'm going away...in a starship...
THREEPIO : Master, Annie, you are my maker, and I wish you well. Although
I'd like it better if I were a little less naked.
ANAKIN : I'm sorry I wasn't able to finish you, Threepio...give you
coverings and all... I'm going to miss working on you. You've been a great
pal. I'll make sure Mom doesn't sell you or anything. Bye.

THREEPIO stares at ANAKIN as he rushes out of the room.

THREEPIO : Sell me?!?

EXT. MOS ESPA - STREET - SLAVE QUARTERS - DAY

KITSTER runs up to ANAKIN as he and QUI-GON exit Anakin's hovel. SHMI
stands in the doorway. ANAKIN pulls a handful of coins out of his pocket
and gives them to KITSTER.

KITSTER : There are so many of us who want you to stay, Annie... You're a
hero.
ANAKIN : I... (looks to SHMI) I... have to go.

QUI-GON has moved a short way down the street.

KITSTER : Well.
ANAKIN : Well.
KITSTER : Thank's for every moment you've been here. You're my best friend.
ANAKIN : I won't forget.

ANAKIN hugs KITSTER and runs toward QUI-GON, then stops to look back at his
mother standing in the doorway. He turns back to QUI-GON, then turns and
runs back to his mother.

ANAKIN : (starting to cry) I can't do it, Mom. I just can't.

SHMI hugs ANAKIN. QUI-GON watches from the distance. She kneels down and
looks him in the face.

SHMI : Annie, remember when you climbed the great dune in order to chase
the Banthas away so they wouldn't be shot... Remember how you collapses
several times, exhausted thinking you couldn't do it?

ANAKIN shakes his head.

SHMI : (Cont'd) This is one of those times when you have to do something
you don't think you can do. I know how strong you are, Annie. I know you
can do this...
ANAKIN : Will I ever see you again?
SHMI : What does your heart tell you?
ANAKIN : I hope so...yes...I guess.
SHMI : Then we will see each other again.
ANAKIN : I.. will become a Jedi and I will come back and free you, Mom...I
promise.
SHMI : No matter where you are, my love will be with you. Now be brave, and
don't look back... don't look back.
ANAKIN : I love you so much.

SHMI hugs ANAKIN, then turns him around so he is facing QUI-GON, and off he
marches, like the brave little trooper that he is. He marches right past
QUI-GON, starring right ahead, tears in his eyes, determined not to look
back.

EXT. TATOOINE - DESERT MESA - DAY

The PROBE DROID beeps and whistles to DARTH MAUL. The SITH LORD gets on a
speeder bike and follows the PROBE DROID into Mos Espa.

EXT MOS ESPA - STREET - FRUIT STAND - DAY

ANAKIN and QUI-GON exit WATTO'S and stop before JIRA'S fruit stand. ANAKIN
hands JIRA some coins.

ANAKIN : I've been freed, and I'm going away. Buy yourself a cooling unit
with this... Otherwise I'll worry about you.

JIRA is astonished. She stares, not knowing what to say.

JIRA : Can I give you a hug
ANAKIN : Sure.

She gives him a hug.

JIRA : I'll miss you, Annie.. there isn't a kinder boy in the galaxy. You
be careful...

ANAKIN runs to join QUI-GON, who has already started down the street. As
they walk along together, QUI-GON notices something out of the corner of
his eye.
Suddenly, without breaking his stride, he ignites his laser sword, swing
around, and lunges forward and cuts a lurking PROBE DROID in half. QUI-GON
inspects the sparking and fizzing DROID.

ANAKIN : What is it?
QUI-GON : Probe droid. Very unusual... not like anything I've seen before.
Come on.

QUI-GON and ANAKIN start running.

EXT. TATOOINE - DESERT - NABOO SPACECRAFT - DAY

QUI-GON and ANAKIN run toward the Naboo spacecraft. ANAKIN is having a hard
time keeping up.

ANAKIN : Master Qui-Gon,sir, wait!

QUI-GON turns to answer and sees a DARK-CLOAKED FIGURE bearing down on a
speeder bike.

QUI-GON : Anakin, drop!

ANAKIN drops to the ground just as DARTH MAUL sweeps over him. DARTH MAUL
jumps off his speeder bike, and before he has hit the ground, the Sith Lord
has swund a death blow with his laser sword that is barely blocked by
QUI-GON.
ANAKIN picks himself up. The two galactic warriors, Sith and Jedi, are
bashing each other with incredible blows. They move in a continual cloudof
dust, smashing everything around them. This is a fierce fight. ANAKIN gets
up, bewildered by the confrontation.

QUI-GON : (Cont'd) Annie, get to the ship! Take off! Go! Go!

QUI-GON struggles to fend off the relentless onslaught as ANAKIN races to
the ship.

INT. NABOO SPACECRAFT - HALLWAY

ANAKIN runs into the main hallway of the spaceship, where PADME and CAPTAIN
PANAKA are working.

ANAKIN : Qui-Gon's in trouble. He says to take off...now!!
CAPT. PANAKA : Who are you?
PADME : He's a friend.

INT. NABOO SPACECRAFT - COCKPIT

CAPTAIN PANAKA, ANAKIN, and PADME rush into the cockpit where OBI-WAN and
RIC OLIE are checking the hyperdrive.

CAPT. PANAKA : Qui-Gon is in trouble, he says to take off!
PILOT : I don't see anything.
OBI-WAN : Over there! Fly low!

In the distance is a small cloud of dust.

EXT. TATOOINE - DESERT - NABOO SPACECRAFT - DAY

QUI-GON and DARTH MAUL continue theirsword battle. Leaping over one another
in an incredible display of acrobatics, the two warrios hear the ship fly
over them a few feet off the ground. QUI-GON almost dissapears for a
moment.
Before DARTH MAUL knows what's happening, QUI-GON is on the spacecrat's
ramp.

EXT. TATOOINE - NABOO SPACECRAFT RAMP - DAY

The SITH LORD immediately jumps onto the ramp after QUI-GON, but barely
makes it. His heels hang over the edge of a forty-foot drop. QUI-GON swings
his laser sword with all his might and knocks DARTH AMUL off the ramp and
onto the desert floor. The ramp closes, and the Naboo craft rockets away,
leaving the Sith Lord standing alone.

EXT. SPACE - NABOO SPACECRAFT (FX)

The sleek spacecraft rockets away from the planet Tatooine.

INT. NABOO SPACECRAFT - HALLWAY

ANAKIN and OBI-WAN rush into the hallway to find QUI-GON collapsed on the
floor opposite the entry. ARTOO is looking over him. The JEDI is breathing
hard, wet with sweat and covered in dirt.

ANAKIN : Are you all right?
QUI-GON : I think so... that was a surpirse I wont soon forget.
OBI-WAN : What was it?
QUI-GON : I don't know... but he was well trained in the Jedi arts. My
guess is he was after the Queen...
ANAKIN : Do you think he'll follow us?
QUI-GON : We'll be safe enough once we're in hyperspace, but I have no
doubt he knows our destination.
ANAKIN : What are we going to do about it?

OBI-WAN gives ANAKIN a "who are you?" look. ANAKIN returns an innocent
stare.

QUI-GON : We will be patient. Anakin Skywalker, meet Obi-Wan Kenobi.
ANAKIN : Pleased to meet you. Wow! You're a Jedi too?

OBI-WAN gives the boy a skeptical look.

INT. COCKPIT - SPACE

RIC OLIE pulls back on the hyperdrive. OBI-WAN, QUI-GON, and ANAKIN watch.

QUI-GON : Let's hope this hyperdrive works and Watto didn't get the last
laugh.

The stars streak outside the cockpit window.

EXT. SPACE - NABOO SPACECRAFT (FX)

The ship streaks into hyperspace.

EXT. THEED - STREET - NIGHT (FX)

SEVERAL FEDERATION DROIDS patrol a deserted city street. The Palace can be
seen in the distance.

INT. NABOO PALACE - THRONE ROOM - THEED - NIGHT

NUTE sits in a strange, mechanical walking chair, which approaches SIO
BIBBLE and SEVERAL OTHER NABOO OFFICIALS. RUNE follows a few paces behind.
DROID GUARDS surround SIO BIBBLE and THE OTHERS as FOUR COUNCIL MEMBERS
watch.

NUTE : When are you going to give up this pointless strike? Your Queen is
lost, your people are starving, and you, Governor, are going to die, much
sooner than your people, I'm afraid. Take him away!
BIBBLE : This invasion will gain you nothing. We're a democracy. The people
have decided... They will not live under your tyranny.

BIBBLE is taken away as OOM-9 approaches NUTE.

OOM-9 : My troops are in position to begin searching the swamps for these
rumored underwater villages... they will not stay hidden for long.

INT. NABOO SPACECRAFT - MAIN AREA

The ship is asleep. The lights are dim as PADME walks into the main room.
She goes to a monitor and watches the BIBBLE plea recording. JAR JAR is
stretched out on the floor, snoring. ARTOO is to one side, cooing as he
rests.
PADME appears tired. She senses someone watching her and turns around with
a start. She sees ANAKIN sitting in the corner, shivering and looking
verydejected. She goes over to him. He looks up at her with tears in his
eyes. He is holding his arms to keep himself warm.

PADME : Are you all right?
ANAKIN : It's very cold.

PADME gives him her over-jacket.

PADME : You're from a warm planet, Annie. Too warm for my taste. Space is
cold.
ANAKIN : You seem sad.
PADME : The Queen is...worried. Her people are suffering...dying. She must
convince the Senate to intervene, or...I'm not sure what will happen.
ANAKIN : I'm...I'm not sure what's going to happen to me. I dunno if I'll
ever see you again.. (he pulls something from his pocket) I made this for
you. Sou you'd remember me. I carved it out of a japor snippet... It will
bring you good fortune.

ANAKIN hands a wooden pendant to PADME. She inspects it, then puts it
around her neck.

PADME : It's beautiful, but I don't need this to remember you. Many things
will change when we reach the capital, Annie. My caring for you will always
remain.
ANAKIN : I care for you too. Only I...miss...

ANAKIN is disturbed about something. Tears are in his eyes.

PADME : ...You miss your mother.

ANAKIN looks at her, unable to speak. She hugs him.

EXT. SPACE - PLANET CORUSCANT (FX)

MOVE with the ship as it heads toward Coruscant.

INT. CORUSCANT - CITYSCAPE - NABOO SPACECRAFT - DAY (FX)

The spacecraft dlies over the endlesscityscape of Coruscant, the capital of
the galaxy.

INT. NABOO SPACECRAFT - COCKPIT

ANAKIN looks out the cockpit window in awe.

RIC OLIE : Coruscant...the capital of the Republic...the entire planet is
one big city.
ANAKIN : Wow! It's so huge!

INT. NABOO SPACECRAFT - DAY (FX)

The ship flies through the cityscape of Coruscant.

EXT. CORUSCANT - SENATE LANDING PLATFORM - DAY

Supreme Chancellor VALORUM, SEVERAL GUARDS, and SENATOR PALPATINE stand on
a landing platform.
The sleek Naboo spacecraft lands on the platform high above the street
level of the galactic capital. The ramp lowers. OBI-WAN, QUI-GON, JAR JAR
and ANAKIN descend the ramp first and bow before PALPATINE and VALORUM.
CAPTAIN PANAKA, TWO GUARDS, QUEEN AMIDALA, then PADME, RABE, EIRTAE,
and
MORE GUARDS descend the ramp. QUEEN AMIDALA stops before the group.
ANAKIN and JAR JAR stand to one side, looking at the huge city. PADME
smiles at ANAKIN. PALPATINE bows before the Queen.

PALPATINE : It is a great gift to see you alive, Your Majesty. May I
present Supreme Chancellor Valorum.
VALORUM : Welcome, Your Highness. It is an honor to finally meet you in
person. I must relay to you how distressed everyone is over the currant
situation. I've called for a special session of the Senate to hear your
position.
AMIDALA : I am grateful for your concern, Chancellor.

PALPATINE starts to lead QUEEN AMIDALA and her RETINUE off the platform
toward a waiting air taxi.

PALPATINE : There is a question of precedure, but I feel confident we can
overcome it...

JAR JAR and ANAKIN start to follow, then stop, noticing that OBI-WAN and
QUI-GON are staying with the SUPREME CHANCELLOR. QUEEN AMIDALA waves to the
duo to follow her. ANAKIN looks back to QUI-GON, and he nods to go ahead.
ANAKIN and JAR JAR join the QUEEN, PALPATINE, PADME, RABE and EIRTAE in the
taxi. PALPATINE gives the Gungan and the boy in the back of the taxi a
skeptical look. JAR JAR leans over to ANAKIN.

JAR JAR : Da Queens- a bein grossly nice, mesa tinks. (he looks around)
Pitty hot!

VALORUM and the JEDI watch the taxi move off into the city.

QUI-GON : I must speak with the Jei Council immediately, Your Honor. The
situation has become more complicated.

INT. PALPATINE'S QUARTERS - ANTEROOM - DAY

QUEEN AMIDALA is sitting listening to PALPATINE. EIRTAE and RABE stand
behind the QUEEN; PADME is nowhere to be sen. ANAKIN and JAR JAR are
waiting in an adjoining room. They can see the Queen but cannot hear what
is being said.

JAR JAR : Dissen all pitty odd to my.
ANAKIN : Don't look at me. I don't know what's going on.

CAPTAIN PANAKA enters, then goes into the room with QUEEN AMIDALA.

INT. PALPATINE'S QUARTERS - LIVING AREA - DAY

PALPATINE is pacing as CAPTAIN PANAKA enters. EIRTAE and RABE stand to one
side.

PALPATINE : ...the Republic is not what it once was. The Senate is full of
greedy, squabbling delegates who are only looking out for themselves and
their home sytems. There is no interest in the common good...no civility,
only politics...its disgusting. I must be frank, Your Majesty, there is
little chance the Senate will act on the invasion.
AMIDALA : Chancellor Valorum seems to think there is hope.
PALPATINE : If I may say so, Your Majesty, the Chancellor has little real
power...he is mired down by baseless accusations of corruption. A
manufactured scandal surrounds him. The bureaucrats are in charge now.
AMIDALA : What options do we have?
PALPATINE : Our best choice would be to push for the election of a stronger
Supreme Chancellor. One who will take control of the bureaucrats, enforces
the laws, and give us justice. You could call for a vote of no confidence
in Chancellor Valorum.
AMIDALA : He has been our strongest supporter. Is there any other way?
PALPATINE : Our only other choice would to be to submit a plea to the
courts...
AMIDALA : There's no time for that. The courts take even longer to decide
things than the Senate. Our people are dying, Senator...more and more each
day. We must do something quickly to stop the Federation.
PALPATINE : To be realistic, Your Highness, I'd say we're going to have to
accept Federation control for the time being.
AMIDALA : There is something I cannot do.

EXT. TEMPLE OF THE JEDI - DAY (FX)

A unique building with it tall spires stands out against the Coruscant
skyline. A small transport passes by the vast temple.

INT. TEMPLE OF THE JEDI - COUNCIL CHAMBERS - DAY

QUI-GON stands in a tall stately room. Twelve JEDI sit in a semi-circle.
OBI-WAN stands behind QUI-GON in the center of the room.
The Senior Jedi is MACE WINDU. To his left is an alien Jedi named
KI-ADI-MUNDI, and to his right, the Jedi Master, YODA.

QUI-GON : ...my only conclusion can be that it was a Sith Lord.
MACE WINDU : A Sith Lord?!?
KI-ADI : Impossible! The Sith have been extinct for a millenium.
YODA : The very Republic is threatened, if involved the Sith are.
MACE WINDU : I do not believe they could have returned without us knowing.
YODA : Hard to see, the dark side is. Discover who this assassin is, we
must.
KI-ADI : I sense he will reveal himself again.
MACE WINDU : This attack was with purpose, that is clear, and I agree the
Queen is the target.
YODA : With this Naboo queen you must stay, Qui-Gon. Protect her.
MACE WINDU : We will use all our resources here to unravel this mystery and
discover the identity of your attacker... May the Force be with you.
YODA : May the Force be with you.

OBI-WAN turns to leave, but QUI-GON continues to face the Council.

YODA : (Cont'd) Master Qui-Gon more to say have you?
QUI-GON : With your permission, my Master. I have encountered a vergence in
the Force.
YODA : A vergence, you say?
MACE WINDU : Located around a person?
QUI-GON : A boy... his cells have the highest concentration of
midi-chlorians I have seen in a life form. It is possible he was conceived
by the midi-chlorians.
MACE WINDU : You're referring to the prophesy of the one who will bring
balance to the Force...you believe it's this boy??
QUI-GON : I don't pressume...
YODA : But you do! Rrevealed your opinion is.
QUI-GON : I request the boy be tested.

The JEDI all look to one another. They nod and turn back to OBI-WAN and
QUI-GON.

YODA : Trained as a Jedi, you request for him?
QUI-GON : Finding him was the will of the Force...I have no doubt of that.
There is too much happening here...
MACE WINDU : Bring him before us, then.
YODA : Tested he will be.

INT. QUEENS QUARTERS - CORUSCANT - DAY Anakin, tentative, walks down one of
the long hallways in Senator Palpatine's quarters. He stops before a dor
that is flanked by TWO GUARDS.

GUARD : May I help you, son?
ANAKIN : I'm...I'm looking for the handmaiden, Padme.

The GUARD speaks into his comlink as ANAKIN looks around a bit nervously.

GUARD : The boy is here to see Padme.
RABE : Send him in.

The doors open, and ANAKIN enters the Queen's quarters.
RABE greets ANAKIN as TWO OTHER HANDMAIDENS come and go into the next room.

ANAKIN : I'd like to speak with Padme, if I could.
RABE : I'm sorry, Annie. Padme is not here right now.

The Queen speaks out in the next room.

AMIDALA : (O.S.) Who is it?
RABE : Anakin Skywalker, to see Padme, Your Highness.

The QUEEN moves into the doorway and studies ANAKIN. ANAKIN bows and looks
down, then takes a peek at her.

AMIDALA : I've sent Padme on an errand.
ANAKIN : I'm going to the Jedi temple to start my training, I hope.

The QUEEN just stares at him.

ANAKIN : (Cont'd) I may not see her again...and... I just wanted to say
goodbye.
AMIDALA : We will tell her for you. We're sure her heart goes with you.

ANAKIN bows again.

ANAKIN : Thank you, Your Highness. I'm sorry to have disturbed you.

The QUEEN dissapears behind the doorway, and ANAKIN exits.

EXT. CORUSCANT - GALACTIC SENATE BUILDING - DAY (FX)

A large, distinctive looking domed building stands out amid the cityscape
of Coruscant.

INT. MAIN ROTUNDA - GALACTIC SENATE - DAY

The Senate chambers are huge. Thousands of SENATORS and their AIDES sit in
the circular assembly area. CHANCELLOR VALORUM sits in an elevated area in
the center. Hindreds of AIDES and DROIDS hurry about. SENATOR PALPATINE,
QUEEN AMIDALA, EIRTA, RABE, and CAPTAIN PANAKA sit in the Naboo
congressional box, which is actually a floating platform. PALPATINE leans
over to the QUEEN.

PALPATINE : If the Federation moves to defer the motion...Your Majesty,
Ibeg of you to ask for a resolution to end this congressional session.
AMIDALA : I wish I had your confidence in this, Senator.
PALPATINE : You must force a new election for Supreme Chancellor...I
promise you there are many who will support us...it is our best chance...
Your Majesty, our only, chance.
AMIDALA : You truely believe Chancellor Valorum will not bring our motion
to a vote?
PALAPATINE : He is distracted...he is afraid. He will be of no help.
VALORUM : The Chair recognizes the Senator from the sovereign system of
Naboo.

The Naboo congressional box floats into the center.

PALPATINE : Supreme Chancellor, delegates of the Senate. A tragedy has
occured on our peaceful system of Naboo. We have become caugt in a dispute
you're all well aware of, which began right here with the taxation of trade
routes, and has now engulfed our entire planet in the oppresion of the
Trade Federation.

A second box rushes into the center of the Senate. It is filled with
Federation trade barons led by LOTT DOD, the Senator for the Federation.

LOTT DOD : This is outrageous! I object to the Senator's statements!
VALORUM : The Chair does not recognize the Senator from the Trade
Federation at this time. Please return to your station.

LOTT DOD reluctantly moves back to his place.

PALPATINE : To state our allegations, I present Queen Amidala, the recently
elected ruler of Naboo, to speak on our behalf.

QUEEN AMIDALA stands and addresses the assembly. There is some applause.

AMIDALA : Honorable representatives of the Republic, distinguished
delegates, and Your Honor Supreme Chancellor Valorum, I come to you under
the gravest of circumstances. The Naboo system has been invaded by force.
Invaded...against all the laws of the Republic by the Droid Armies of the
Trade...
LOTT DOD : I object! There is no proof. This is incredible. We recommend a
commision be sent to Naboo to assertain the truth.
VALORUM : Overruled.
LOTT DOD : Your Honor, you cannot allow us to be condemned without
reasonable observation. It's against all the rules of procedure.

A third box representing Malastare moves into the center of the room. AKS
MOE, the Ambassador, addresses the convention.

AKS MOE : The Congress of Malastare concurs with the honorable delegate
from the Trade Federation. A commision must be appointed...that is the law.
VALORUM : The point...

VALORUM confers with several of his AIDES and VICE CHAIRMAN MAS AMEDDA.
PALPATINE whispers something to the QUEEN.

PALPATINE : Enter the bureaucrats, the true rulers of the Republic, and on
the payroll of the Trade Federation, I might add. This is where Chancellor
Valorum's strength will dissapear.
VALORUM : The point is conceded...Section 523A take precedence here. Queen
Amidala of the Naboo, will you defer your motion to allow a commission to
explore the validity of your accusations?

QUEEN AMIDALA is angry but remains composed.

AMIDALA : (angrily) I will not defer...I have come before you to resolve
this attack on our sovereignty now. I was not elected to watch my people
suffer and die while you discuss this invasion in a committee. If this body
is not capable of action, I suggest new leadership is needed. I move for a
"vote of no confidence"...in Chancellor Valorum's leadership.
VALORUM : What?...No!

This causes a great stir in the assembly. A loud mumur cresendos into a
roar of approval and jeers. CHANCELLOR VALORUM is stunned and stands
speechless. His Vice Chair, MAS AMEDDA, takes over.

MAS AMEDDA : Order! We shall have order...

Things settledown a little. The Federation box settles next to AMIDALA.
PRINCE BAIL ORGANA moves his box into the arena.

BAIL ORGANA : Alderaan seconds the motion for a vote of no confidence in
Chancellor Valorum.
MAD AMEDDA : The motion has been seconded by Bail Organa of Alderaan.

MAS AMEDDA turns to the confused VALORUM, and whispers something to him.

BAIL ORGANA : There must be no delays. The motion is on the floor and must
be voted upon in this session.
LOTT DOD : The Trade Federation moves the motion be sent to the procedures
committee for study.

The assembly begins to chant. VALORUM talks to MAS AMEDDA.

ASSEMBLY : Vote now! Vote now! Vote now!

PALPATINE stands next to AMIDALA.

PALPATINE : You see, Your Majaesty, the tide is with us...Valorum will be
voted out, I assure you, and they will elect in a new Chancellor, a strong
Chancellor, one who will not let our tragedy continue...
MAS AMEDDA : Thew Supreme Chancellor requests a recess. Tomorrow we will
begin the vote.

The Federation delegation is furious. VALORUM turns to PALPATINE.

VALORUM : Palpatine, I thought you were my ally...my friend. You have
betrayed me! How could you do this?

EXT. PALACE OF THE JEDI - BALCONY - SUNSET

OBI-WAN and QUI-GON stand outside the palace on a balcony.

OBI-WAN : The boy will not pass the Council's tests, Master, and you know
it. He is far too old.
QUI-GON : Anakin will become A Jedi...I promise you.
OBI-WAN : Don't defy the Council, Master..not again.
QUI-GON : I will do what I must.
OBI-WAN : Master, you could be sitting on the Council by now if you would
just follow the code. They will not go along with you this time.
QUI-GON : You still have much to learn, my young apprentice.

INT. PALACE OF THE JEDI - COUNCIL CHAMBERS - SUNSET

ANAKIN stands before the TWELVE JEDI. MACE WINDU holds a small hand-held
viewing screen. In rapid succession, images flash across the screen.

ANAKIN : A ship...a cup...a speeder.

MACE WINDU turns the viewing screen off and nods toward YODA.

YODA : Good, good, young one. How feel you?
ANAKIN : Cold, sir.
YODA : Afraid are you?
ANAKIN : No, sir.
MACE WINDU : Afraid to give up your life?
ANAKIN : I don't think so.

ANAKIN hesitates for a moment.

YODA : See through you, we can.
MACE WINDU : Be mindful of your feelings...
KI-ADI : YOur thoughts dwell on your mother.
ANAKIN : I miss her.
YODA : Afraid to lose her..I think.
ANAKIN : (a little angry) What's that got to do with anything?
YODA : Eveything. Fear is the path to the dark side... fear leads to
anger... anger leads to hate.. hate leads to suffering.
ANAKIN : (angrily) I am not afraid!
YODA : A Jedi must have the deepest commitment, the most serious mind. I
sense much fear in you.
ANAKIN : (quietly) I am not afraid.
YODA : Then continue, we will.

INT. PALPATINES QUARTERS - SUNSET

QUEEN AMIDALA is standing, staring out the window, with JAR JAR. The lights
of the city shimmer before them. EIRTAE and SABE stand near the door. JAR
JAR turns to face the QUEEN and sees her sadness.

JAR JAR : Mesa wonder why da guds invent pain?
AMIDALA : To motivate us, I imagine...
JAR JAR : Yousa tinken yousa people ganna die?
AMIDALA : I don't know.
JAR JAR : Gungans ganna get pasted too, eh?
AMIDALA : I hope not.
JAR JAR : Gungans do die'n without a fight.... wesa warriors. Wesa gotta
grand army. Dat why you no liken us, metinks.

PALPATINE and CAPTAIN PANAKA rush into the rom and bow before the QUEEN.

CAPT. PANAKA : Your Highness, Senator Palpatine has been nominated to
succeed Valorum as Supreme Chancellor.
PALPATINE : A surprise, to be sure, but a welcome one. I promise, Your
Majesty, if I am elected, I will bring democracy back to the Republic. I
will put an end to corruption. The Trade Fedreation will lose its influence
over the bureaucrats, and our people will be freed.
AMIDALA : Who else can be nominated?
CAPT. PANAKA : Bail Antilles of Alderaan and Ainlee Teem of Malastare.
PALPATINE : I feel confident...our "situation" will create a strong
sympaphy vote for us... I will be Chancellor, I promise you.
AMIDALA : I fear by the time you have control of the bureaucrats, Senator,
there will be nothing left of our cities, our people, our way of life...
PALPATINE : I understand your concern, Your Majesty; unfortunately, the
Federation has possession of our planet. The law is in their favor.
AMIDALA : With the Senate in transition, there is nothing more I can do
here...Senator, this is your arena. I feel I must return to mine. I have
decided to go back to Naboo. My place is with my people.
PALPATINE : Go back!! But, Your Majesty, be realistic! You would be in
danger. They will force you to sign the treaty.
AMIDALA : I will sign no treaty, Senator. My fate will be no different from
that of our people. Captain!
CAPT. PANAKA : Yes, Your Highness?
AMIDALA : Ready my ship!
CAPT. PANAKA : Please, Your Majesty, stay here...where it's safe.
AMIDALA : No place is safe, if the Senate doesn't condemn this invasion. It
is clear to me now that the Republic no longer functions as a democracy. If
you win the election, Senator, I know you will do everything possible to
stop the Federation. I pray you will bring sanity and compassion back to
the Senate.

AMIDALA and her RETINUE exit the room. PALPATINE has a self-satisfied smile
on his face.

INT. TEMPLE OF THE JEDI - COUNCIL CHAMBERS - TWILIGHT

ANAKIN, OBI-WAN, and QUI-GON stand before the TWELVE MEMBERS OF THE JEDI
COUNCIL.

YODA : ...Correct you were, Qui-Gon.
MACE WINDU : His cells contain a high concentration of midi-chlorians.
KI-ADI : The Force is strong with him.
QUI-GON : He's to be trained, then.

The COUNCIL MEMBERS look to one another.

MACE WINDU : No. He will not be trained.

ANAKIN is crestfallen; tears begin to form in his eyes.

QUI-GON : No??!!

OBI-WAN smiles.

MACE WINDU : He is too old. There is already too much anger in him.
QUI-GON : He is the chosen one...you must see it.
YODA : Clouded, this boy's future is. Masked by his youth.
QUI-GON : I will trin him, then. I take Anakin as my Padawan learner.

OBI-WAN reacts with surprise. ANAKIN watches with interest.

YODA : An apprentice, you have, Qui-Gon. Impossible, to take on a second.
MACE WINDU : We forbid it.
QUI-GON : Obi-Wan is ready...
OBI-WAN : Iam ready to face the trials.
YODA : Ready so early, are you? What know you of ready?

ANAKIN watches as QUI-GON and OBI-WAN exchange angry looks.

QUI-GON : Headstrong....and he has much to learn about the living Force,
but he is capabe. There is little more he will learn from me.
YODA : Our own council we will keep on who is ready. More to learn, he
has...
MACE WINDU : Now is not the time for this...the Senate is voting for a new
Spreme Chancellor. Queen Amidala is returning home, which will put pressure
on the Federation, and could widen the confrontation.
YODA : And draw out the Queen's attacker.
KI-ADI : Events are moving fast...too fast.
MACE WINDU : Go with the Queen to Naboo and discover the identity of the
dark warrior. That is the clue we need to unravel this mystery of the Sith.

YODA : Young Skywalker's fate will be decided later.
QUI-GON : I brought Anakin here; he must stay in my charge. He has nowhere
else to go.
MACE WINDU : He is your ward, Qui-Gon...we will not dispute that.
YODA : Train him not. Take him with you, but train him not!
MACE WINDU : Protect the Queen, but do not intercede if it comes to war
until we have the Senate's approval.
YODA : May the Force be with you.

OBI-WAN, QUI-GON, and ANAKIN leave.

EXT. CORUSCANT - SENATE LANDING PLATFORM - NIGHT

QUI-GON, OBI-WAN, and ANAKIN stand on the landing platform outside the
ship. ARTOO whistles a happy tune as he leans over the edge of the
platform, watching the traffic. Suddenly, he leans over too far and falls
overboard. After a moment, he reappears, using his on-board jets to propel
himself back onto the landing platform. The wind whips at ANAKIN as he
listens to the JEDI.

OBI-WAN : It is not disrespect, Master, it is the truth.
QUI-GON : From your point of view....
OBI-WAN : The boy is dangerous...they all sense it. Why can't you?
QUI-GON : His fate is uncertain, not dangerous. The Council will decide
Anakin's future...that should be enough for you. Now get on board!
OBI-WAN reluctantly boards the Naboo spacecraft followed by ARTOO. QUI-GON
goes over to ANAKIN.
ANAKIN : Master Qui-Gon, sir, I do not wish to be a problem.
QUI-GON : You won't be, Annie....I'm not allowed to train you, so I want
you to watch me and be mindful...always remember, your focus determines
your reality. Stay close to me and you will be safe.
ANAKIN : Master, sir...I've been wondering...what are midi-chlorians?
QUI-GON : Midi-chlorians are a microcopic lifeform that reside within all
living cells and communicates with the Force.
ANAKIN : They live inside of me?
QUI-GON : In your cells. We are symbionts with the midi-chlorians.
ANAKIN : Symbionts?
QUI-GON : Life forms living together for mutual advantage. Without the
midi-chlorians, life could not exist, and we would have no knowledge of the
Force. They continually speak to you, telling you the will of the Force.
ANAKIN : They do??
QUI-GON : When you learn to quiet your mind, you will hear them speaking to
you.
ANAKIN : I don't understand.
QUI-GON : With time and training, Annie...you will.

Two taxis pull up, and CAPTAIN PANAKA, SENATOR PALPATINE, TWENTY OR SO
TROOPS, GUARDS, and OFFICERS walk briskly toward the ship, followed by
QUEEN AMIDALA, PADME, EIRTAE, and finally, JAR JAR. AMIDALA and her
HANDMAIDENS stop before the JEDI.

QUI-GON : (Cont'd) Your Highness, it is our pleasure to continue to serve
and protect you.
AMIDALA : I welcome your help. Senator Palpatine fears the Federation means
to destroy me.
QUI-GON : I promise you, I will not let that happen.

AMIDALA enters the ship, followed by her HANDMAIDENS. JAR JAR hugs QUI-GON
and ANAKIN.

JAR JAR : Wesa goen home!

They ALL move onto the ship. The ship takes off.

INT. NABOO PALACE - THRONE ROOM - THEED - NIGHT

NUTE and RUNE stand before a hologram of DARTH SIDIOUS.

DARTH SIDIOUS : The Queen is on her way to you. I regret she is of no
further use to us. When she gets there, destroy her.
NUTE : Yes, my Lord.
DARTH SIDIOUS : Viceroy, is the planet secure?
NUTE : Yes, my Lord, we have taken over the last pockets of primitive life
forms. We are in complete control of the planet now.
DARTH SIDIOUS : Good. I will see to it that in the Senate, things stay as
they are. I am sending Darth Maul to join you. He will deal with the Jedi.
NUTE : Yes, my Lord.

DARTH SIDIOUS fades off.

RUNE : A Sith lord here with us?!!

INT. SPACE - NABOO SPACECRAFT COCKPIT

ANAKIN stands next to the PILOT, RIC OLIE, pointing to various buttons and
gauges.

ANAKIN : ...and that one?
RIC OLIE : The forward stabalizer.
ANAKIN : And those control the pitch?
RIC OLIE : You catch on pretty quick.

INT. NABOO SPACECRAFT - QUEEN'S CHAMBERS

SABE and EIRTAE stand behind QUEEN AMIDALA as she talks with QUI-GON and
CAPTAIN PANAKA. OBI-WAN and JAR JAR watch.

CAPT. PANAKA : The moment we land the Federation will arrest you, and force
you to sign the treaty.
QUI-GON : I agree...I'm not sure what you hope to accomplish by this.
AMIDALA : I'm going to take back what's ours.
CAPT. PANAKA : There are only twelve of us, Your Highness....we have no
army.
QUI-GON : I cannot fight a war for you, Your Highness, only protect you.
AMIDALA : Jar Jar Binks!

JAR JAR looks around, puzzled.

JAR JAR : Mesa, Your Highness?
AMIDALA : Yes. I need your help.

INT. NABOO CRUISER COCKPIT - DAY

The Naboo Cruiser heads toward the lush green planet. There is only one
Federation battle cruiser orbiting. OBI-WAN and CAPTAIN PANAKA spot it on
the view screen.

PANAKA : The blockade's gone.
OBI-WAN : The war's over...No need for it now.
RIC OLIE : I have one battleship on my scope.
OBI-WAN : A droid control ship.
PANAKA : They've probably spotted us.
OBI-WAN ; We haven't much time.

INT. NABOO SPACECRAFT - MAIN HOLD

The QUEEN, CAPTAIN PANAKA, TROOPS, and HANDMAIDENS get ready to disembark
as the ship alnds. The elevator door slides open, and ANAKIN emerges into
the hold area. He see PADME and run up to her.

ANAKIN : Hi! Where have you been?
PADME : Annie! What are you doing here?
ANAKIN : I'm with Qui-Gon...but...they're not going to let me be a Jedi.
I'm too old.
PADME : This is going to be dangerous, Annie.
ANAKIN : Is it? I can help... Where are we going?
PADME : To war, I'm afraid. The Queen has had to make the most difficuld
decision of her life. She doesn't believe in fighting, Annie. We are a
peaceful people...
ANAKIN : I want to help...I'm glad you're back.

ANAKIN smiles. PADME smiles back.

EXT. NABOO SWAMP - DAY

The Naboo spacecraft has landed in the Gungan swamp. TROOPS unload the
ships in the background as OBI-WAN approaches QUI-GON.

OBI-WAN : Jar Jar is on his way to the Gungan city, Master.

QUI-GON's thoughts are elsewhere.

QUI-GON : Good.

OBI-WAN and QUI-GON stand silently for a moment.

OBI-WAN : Do you think the Queen's idea will work?
QUI-GON : The Gungans will not easily be swayed, and we cannot use our
power to help her.
OBI-WAN : I'm...I'm sorry for my behavior, Master. It is not my place to
disagree with you about the boy. I am grateful you think I am ready for the
trials.

QUI-GON looks at him for a long moment.

QUI-GON : You have been a good apprentice. You are much wiser than Iam,
Obi-Wan. I foresee you will become a great Jedi Knight.

EXT. NABOO SWAMP - UNDERWATER - DAY (FX)

JAR JAR swims down into Bubble City.

INT. OTOH GUNGA - CITY SQUARE

JAR JAR enters the main square of the bubble city. He stands, stunned, in
amazement and fear. He is nervous and shaking.

JAR JAR : Ello! Where das everybody?

The plaza is empty. He notices that many of the buildings are shot up as if
there had been a battle of some kind.

EXT. NABOO SWAMP LAKE - DAY

JAR JAR exits the swamp lake and walks over to QUEEN AMIDALA, CAPTAIN
PANAKA, OBI-WAN, and QUI-GON. PADME, EIRTAE, RABE, ANAKIN, and ARTOO,
FOUR
PILOTS, and EIGHT GUARDS stand in the background near the starship.

JAR JAR : Dare-sa nobody dare. All gone. Some kinda fight, I tink. Sorry,
no Gungas...no Gungas.
CAPT. PANAKA : Do you think they have been taken to camps?
OBI-WAN : More likely they were wiped out.
JAR JAR : No...mesa no tink so. Gungan hiden. When in trouble, go to sacred
place. Mackineeks no find them dare.
QUI-GON : Do you know where they are?

EXT. NABOO SWAMP - DAY

The GROUP follows JAR JAR as he moves through the swamp. JAR JAR stops and
sniffs the air. The GROUP stop behind him.

JAR JAR : Dissen it.

JAR JAR makes a strange chattering noise. Suddenly, out of nowhere, CAPTAIN
TARPALS and SIX OTHER GUNGAN TROOPS riding on KAADUS emerge from the brush.

JAR JAR : (Cont'd) Heyo-dalee, Captain Tarpals.
CAPT. TARPALS : Binks!! Noah gain!
JAR JAR : We comen to see da boss.

CAPTIAN TARPALS rolls his eyes.

CAPT. TARPALS : Ouch time, Binks... Ouch time for all-n youse.

EXT. NABOO SACRED TEMPLE RUINS - DAY

JAR JAR, QUEEN AMIDALA, ANAKIN, ARTOO, QUI-GON, OBI-WAN, PADME, RABE,
EIRTAE, and the rest of her group are led through a clearing full of GUNGAN
refugees. At the far end are the ruins of a grand temple with massive
carved heads. BOSS NASS and several other COUNCIL MEMBERS walk out on the
top of a three-quarter-submerged head.

BOSS NASS : Jar Jar, yousa payen dis time. Who's da uss-en others??

QUEEN AMIDALA steps forward. CAPTAIN PANAKA and the JEDI stand behind her.

AMIDALA : I am Queen Amidala of the Naboo...I come before you in peace.
BOSS NASS : Naboo biggen. Yousa bringen da Mackineeks... Dya busten uss-en
omm. Yousa all bombad. Yousa all die'n, mesa tink.

CAPTAIN PANAKA and HALF A DOZEN GUARDS and PILOTS look around nervously,
and the GUNGAN TROOPS lower their long power poles. The JEDI stay relaxed.
ANAKIN watches everything with great interest.

AMIDALA : We wish to form an alliance...

Suddenly, PADME steps forward.

PADME : Your Honor...

ARTOO whistles a quiet "uh oh."

BOSS NASS : Whosa dis?
PADME : I am Queen Amidala (points to Queen) This is my decoy...my
protection...my loyal bodyguard.

ANAKIN is stunned. OBI-WAN and QUI-GON give each other a knowing look.

PADME : (Cont'd) ...I am sorry for my deception, but under the
circumstances it has become necessary to protect myself. Although we do not
always agree, Your Honor, our two great societies have always lived in
peace...until now. The Trade Federation has destroyed all that we have
worked so hard to build. You are in hiding, my people are in camps. If we
do not act quickly, all will be lost forever...I ask you to help us...no, I
beg you to help us.

PADME drops to her knees and prostrates herself before BOSS NASS. There is
a gasp from CAPTAIN PANAKA, HIS TROOPS, and the HANDMAIDENS.

PADME : (Cont'd) We are your humble servants...our fate is in your hands.

Slowly, CAPTAIN PANAKA and his TROOPS bow down before the GUNGAN COUNCIL.
Then the HANDMAIDENS, ANAKIN, and finally the JEDI. The GUNGANS are puzzled
by this. BOSS NASS begins to laugh.

BOSS NASS : Yousa no tinken yousa greater den da Gungans.. Mesa like dis.
Maybe wesa bein friends.

INT. NABOO PALACE - THRONE ROOM - DAY

NUTE, RUNE, and DARTH MAUL walk with a hologram of DARTH SIDIOUS.

NUTE : ...we've sent out patrols. We've already located their starship in
the swamp....It won't be long, My Lord.
DARTH SIDIOUS : This is an unexpected move for her. It's too aggresive..
Lord Maul, be mindful.
DARTH MAUL : Yes, my Master.
DARTH SIDIOUS : Be patient... Let them make the first move.

EXT. NABOO EDGE OF SWAMP/ GRASS PLAINS - DAY

A GUNGAN SENTRY sits on top of the ancient temple heah, searching the
landscape with a pair of electrobinoculars. He sees something and yells
down to ANAKIN at the foot of the statue.

GUNGAN LOOKOUT : Daza comen!
ANAKIN : All right. They're here!

ANAKIN yells and runs over to PADME and the JEDI, who are discussing a
battle plan with FIVE GUNGAN GENERALS. SABE and EIRTAE stand nearby. BOSS
NASS puts his arm around JAR JAR.

BOSS NASS : Yousa doen grand. Jar Jar bringen da Naboo together.
JAR JAR : Oh, no, no, no...
BOSS NASS : So, wesa maken yousa Bombad General.
JAR JAR : General??! Oh, no..

JAR JAR's eyes roll back, his tongue flops out and he faints.
FOUR SPEEDERS pull up to the GROUP. CAPTAIN PANAKA and a DOZEN OR SO
GUARDS
and PILOT pile out and join the group.

PADME : What is the situation?
CAPT. PANAKA : Almost everyone's in camps. A few hundred police and guards
have formed an underground movement. I brought as many of the keaders as I
could. The Federation Army's also much larger than we thought, and much
stronger. Your Highness, this is a battle I do not think we can win.
PADME : The battle is a diversion. The Gungans must draw theDroid Army away
from the cities. We can enter the city using the secret passages on the
waterfall side. Once we get to the main entrance, Captain Pnaka will create
a diversion, so that we can enter the palace and capture the Viceroy.
Without the Viceroy, they will be lost and confused.

QUI-GON and OBI-WAN look on with interest.

PADME : (Cont'd) What do you think, Master Jedi?
QUI-GON : The Viceroy will be well guarded.
CAPT. PANAKA : The difficulty's getting into the throne room. Once we're
inside, we shouldn't have a problem.
QUI-GON : There is a possibility with this diversion many Gungans will be
killed.
BOSS NASS : Wesa ready to do are-sa part.

JAR JAR smiles a very worried and sheepish grin. ANAKIN watches with
interest, as does ARTOO.

PADME : We have a plan which should immobilize the Droid Army. We will send
what pilots we have to knock out the Droid control ship which is orbiting
the planet. If we can get past their rayshields, we can sever communication
and their droids will be helpless.
QUI-GON : A well-conceived plan. However, there's great risk. The weapons
on your fighters may not penetrate the shields on the control ship.
OBI-WAN : And there's an even bigger danger. If the Vicroy escapes, Your
Highness, he will return with another droid army.
PADME : That is why we must not fail to get to the Viceroy. Everything
depends on it.

INT. THEED - PALACE - THRONE ROOM - DAY

NUTE, RUNE, DARTH MAUL, OOM-9, and a hologram of DARTH SIDIOUS walk through
the throne room.

DARTH SIDIOUS : ...she is more foolish than I thought.
NUTE : We are sending all available troops to meet this army of hers
assembling near the swamp. It appears to be made up of primitives. We do
not expect much resistance.
OOM-9 : I am increasing security at all Naboo detention camps.
DARTH MAUL : I feel there is more to this, My Master. The two Jedi may be
using the Queen for their own purposes.
DARTH SIDIOUS : The Jedi cannot become involved. They can only protect the
Queen. Even Qui-Gon Jinn will not break that conenant.... This will work to
our advantage...
NUTE : I have your approval to proceed then, My Lord.
DARTH SIDIOUS : Proceed. Wipe them put...all of them. INT. NABOO SWAMP LAKE
- DAY (FX)

All is peaceful. SMALL CRITTERS drink out of a large swamp lake. Suddenly
there is a disturbance in the middle of the lake. A rush of bubbles, then a
GUNGAN SOLDIER riding a KAADU emerges from the water, followed by SEVERAL
OTHERS. FROGS and OTHER LITTLE ANIMALS flee in all directions as the GUNGAN
ARMY marches through the swamp. The KAADU shake themselves off as they exit
the lake. When JAR JAR's KAADU shakes off, JAR JAR falls off.
SOLDIERS on huge, lizard-like FAMBAAS with large shield generators mounted
on their backs follow the marching WARRIORS. The GUNGAN ARMY heads out of
the swamp and onto the rolling grassy hills.
HUNDREDS OF GUNGAN WARRIORS march in lon lines toward the horizon.
Federation tanks move up to a ridge and stop. In the distance they see the
GUNGAN ARMY marching toward them. The GUNGAN GENERAL CEEL sees the tanks on
the ridge and orders a halt. The GUNGANS are spread out in a large line.
JAR JAR is nervous. GENERAL CEEL signals to the shield operators.

GENERAL CEEL : Energize the shields.

A red ray shoots out of the generator and blasts into a large dish on the
back of a second FAAMBA and spreads like an umbrella over the assembled
WARRIORS.

EXT. THEED - CENTRAL PLAZA - DAY

PADME, followed by EIRTAE, OBI-WAN, QUI-GON, ANAKIN, and ARTOO, stealthily
makes her way toward the entrance to the main hanger. They are followed by
about TWENTY NABOO GUARDS, PILOTS, and TROOPS. They stop, and PADME uses a
small red laser light to signal across the plaza to CAPTAIN PANAKA, RABE
and TWENTY OTHER ASSORTED NABOO TROOPS. They signal back. QUI-GON leans
over to ANAKIN.

QUI-GON : Once we get inside, Annie, you find a safe placeto hide and stay
there.
ANAKIN : Sure.
QUI-GON : And stay there!

DROID TROOPS mill about the tank-filled plaza. At the far end of the plaza,
SEVERAL DROIDS begin to run and fire. NABOO SOLDIERS begin to fire back at
the BATTLE DROIDS.
As the ruckus erupts at one end of the plaza, PADME and her TROOPS rush
into the main hanger. CAPTAIN PANAKA and HIS SOLDIERS continue to engage
the DROIDS outside.

INT. THEED - CENTRAL HANGER - DAY

ALARMS ARE SOUNDING a PADME, the JEDI, ANAKIN, EIRTAE, and PADME's TROOPS
rush into the hanger. BATTLE DROIDS begin firing at them as they run for
cover. ANAKIN runs under a Naboo fighter. The JEDI deflect bolts aimed at
PADME back onto the BATTLE DROIDS, causing them to EXPLODE.

INT. THEED - PALACE THRONE ROOM - DAY

NUTE, RUNE, and FOUR COUNCIL MEMBERS watch the plaza battle on a large view
screen.

NUTE : I thought the battle was going to take place far from here...this is
too close!
RUNE : What is going on?

DARTH MAUL enters the throne room.

DARTH MAUL : I told you there was more to this...the Jedi are involved.

EXT. NABOO GRASS PLAINS - DAY (FX)

The Federation tanks begin to fire on the GUNGANS, but they are protected
by their energy shield. The tanks stop firing, and the GUNGANS CHEER, until
they see the doors to the massive transports open, and racks of BATTLE
DROIDS are pulled out and lined up by a squad of STAPS.
The BATTLE DROIDS reconfigure into their standing position. The GUNGANS get
ready for an attack. OOM-9 gives the command to move forward, and THOUSANDS
OF DROIDS march toward the GUNGANS.
The GUNGANS power up their weapons. The DROIDS slowly march through the
protective shield and start firing. The GUNGANS throw their power poles and
fling small balls of energy with slingshots. The WARRIORS dump large balls
of energy into mortars that heat up and fire the energy goo onto the BATTLE
DROIDS, causing them to short out.
The battle rages and the GUNGANS defend their shield generators against the
ARMY OF DROIDS. OOM-9 watches from a tank on a hill overlooking the battle.

INT. THEED - CENTRAL HANGER - DAY

ANAKIN hides behind one of the Naboo fighters, ducking as large bolts whiz
past and EXPLODE near him. PADME and the TWO JEDI destroy BATTLE DROIDS
right and left. The QUEEN'S TROOPS and EIRTAE also blast away at the
DROIDS. PADME signals to her pilots.

PADME : Get to your ships!

The PILOTS and ARTOO UNITS run for the Naboo fighter craft stacked in the
hanger bay. ONE OF THE PILOTS jumps into a fighter right above where ANAKIN
is hiding.

FIGHTER PILOT : Better find a new hiding place, kid. I'm taking this ship.

The ship begins to levitate out of the hanger. BATTLE DROIDS fire at it as
it falls in behind five other fighters. ARTOO whistles to ANAKIN from a
second fighter not far away. ANAKIN runs and jumps into the second fighter
to hide.

EXT. THEED - CENTRAL PLAZA - DAY (FX)

Two Naboo starfighters exit the main hanger. A tank fires at them, hitting
one of them, which causes it to pinwheel into the ground and EXPLODE.

INT. THEED - CENTRAL HANGER - DAY

CAPTAIN PANAKA, SABE and NABOO TROOPS rush into the hanger and overwlm the
few remaining BATTLE DROIDS. PADME, OBI-WAN, and QUI-GON join forces with
CAPTAIN PANAKA.

PADME : My guess is the Viceroy is in the throne room.

She looks to QUI-GON.

QUI-GON : I agree.

They start to head for the exit, on the way passing the fighter where
ANAKIN is hiding. ARTOO whistles a greeting as ANAKIN peeps out of the
cockpit.

ANAKIN : Hey! Wait for me.
QUI-GON : No, Annie, you stay there. Stay right where you are.
ANAKNI : But, I...
QUI-GON : Stay in that cockpit.

They head for the exit. As they are about to go through the door, suddenly
everyone scatters, revealing DARTH MAUL standing in the doorway. CAPTAIN
PANAKA, PADME, and HER TROOPS back away. QUI-GON and OBI-WAN step forward.

QUI-GON : (Cont'd) We'' handle this...

The TWO JEDI take off their capes and ignite their laser swords. DARTH MAUL
takes off his cape, and ignites his laser sword. Both ends of the sword
light up.
At the far end of the hanger, SIX WHEEL DROIDS roll in and transform into
their battle position. ARTOO calls ANAKIN's attention to the DROIDS. The
JEDI begin to fight the Sith Lord.

ANAKIN : Oh, no...

The DROIDS begin to advance and start firing on PADME and HER TROOPS.

ANAKIN : (Cont'd) We gotta do something, Artoo.

ARTOO whistles a reply. Suddenly, the ship's systems go on, and the ship
begins to levitate.

ANAKIN : (Cont'd) All right, thanks Artoo! Great idea! I'll take over.
Let's see...

ANAKIN steers the ship toward the DROIDS. He pushes a button, and the ship
begins to shake.

ANAKIN : (Cont'd) Where's the trigger? Oops, wrong one.. Maybe this one....

ANAKIN pushes a second button, and the lasers begin to fire, wiping out
several DESTROYER DROIDS. ARTOO whistles a cheer.

ANAKIN : (Cont'd) Yeah, all right. "Droid blaster." Yeah!

The JEDI are engaged in a fierce sword fight with DARTH MAUL. They have
moved into the center of the hanger. While the WHEEL DROIDS are momentarily
distracted by ANAKIN, CAPTAIN PANAKA, PADME, and HER TROOPS exit into a
palace hallway.
The WHEEL DROIDS start firing at ANAKIN. There are EXPLOSIONS all around
him.

ANAKIN : (Cont'd) Oops...shield up! Always on the right...shields always on
the right.

ANAKIN flips several switches, and the after-burner ignites.

ANAKIN : (Cont'd) I know we're moving. I'll shut the energy drive down.

The fighter rockets out of the hanger. ARTOO and ANAKIN hold on for dear
life.

ANAKIN : (Cont'd) Oops!! Wrong one.

ARTOO beeps.

ANAKIN : (Cont'd) I'm not doing anything!

ARTOO beeps.

ANAKIN : (Cont'd) I know...I didn't push anything.

The SITH LORD's moves are incredible. He is fighting the TWO JEDI at once,
flipping into the air, outmaneuvering them at every turn.

INT. NABOO STARFIGHTER - COCKPIT - SPACE

The Naboo fleet leaves the planet and heads toward the space station.

RIC OLIE : Bravo Flight A, take on the fighters. Flight B, make the run on
the transmitter.
BRAVO TWO : Roger, Bravo Leader.

The fleet approaches the space station. Many Federation fighters exit the
hangers and attack.

RIC OLIE : Enemy fighters straight ahead!

EXT. NABOO GRASS PALINS - DAY

JAR JAR's clumsiness works for him in the battle. He gets caught up in the
wiring of a blasted DROID, dragging the torso around with him, the DROID's
gun firing randomly, accidently blasting SEVERAL DROIDS in one process.
OOM-9 decides to send in the WHEEL DROIDS and gives the signal. HUNDREDS OF
WHEEL DROIDS roll out of the transports and head down toward the battle.
They slowly roll through the deflector shields, then transform themselves
once they get on the other side. The GUNGANS blast the WHEEL DROIDS with
energy balls. The DESTROYER DROIDS blast many GUNGANS.

INT. NABOO STARFIGHTER - COCKPIT - SPACE

A giant dogfight ensues. ANAKIN's fighter flies into space above Naboo.
ARTOO beeps a worried concern.

ANAKIN : The Autopilot is searching for what other ships?

ARTOO beeps and whistles.

ANAKIN : (Cont'd) There is no manual override, Artoo. You'll have to rewire
it or something.

ARTOO chirps that he's trying.

ANAKIN : (cont'd) Look! There they are! That's where the autopilot is
taking us.

ANAKIN's fighter flies toward the Federation Battleship.

INT. THEED - CENTRAL HANGER - DAY

The SITH LORD drives the JEDI out of the hanger and nto the power generator
area next door.

INT. THEED - POWER GENERATOR PIT - DAY

Three swords are crossed in an intense display of swordmanship. The JEDI
and the SITH LORD fight their way across the narrow bridge of the Theed
power generator. DARTH MAUL jumps onto the bridge above them. The JEDI
follow, one in front of the SITH LORD and one behind. They continue their
sword fight.

INT. THEED - PALACE - HALLWAY - DAY

PADME, CAPTAIN PANAKA, EIRTAE, SABE and THIER TROOPS are trapped in a
hallway by BATTLE DROIDS.

PADME : We don't have time for this, Captain.
CAPT. PANAKA : Let's try the outside stairway.

CAPTAIN PANAKA blasts a hole in the window, and they make their way outside
the building onto a ledge about six stories above a raging waterfall. SABE,
EIRTAE and about TWENTY NABOO SOLDIERS stay in the hallway to hold off the
BATTLE DROIDS.

EXT. THEED - PALACE - OVER WATERFALL - DAY

PADME, CAPTAIN PANAKA, and about TEN OTHER NABOO SOLDIERS are lined up
along the edge. They have pulled small attachments out of their pistols and
fire at a ledge about four stories above them. Thin cables shoot out of the
pistols and are embedded into the ledge. PADME, CAPTAIN PANAKA, and the
OTHERS begin to climb up the wall.

EXT . NABOO GRASS PLAINS DAY

The GUNGAN ARMY is no match for the DESTROYER DROIDS. JAR JAR tries to run
from the BATTLE DROIDS.

GENERAL CEEL : Retreat! Retreat!

The GUNGANS begin to turn and run, on foot, on their kaadu, and in wagons.
JAR JAR attempts to escape on a wagon of energy balls but only manages to
unhitch the back gate, causing all of the energy balls to roll out of the
wagon and down the hill. JAR JAR scrambles to avoid being hit by one of the
balls. FOUR DESTROYER DROIDS aren't so lucky. They get blasted by the
energy balls.
The GUNGANS renew their attack on the DROID ARMY. JAR JAR's bumbling
destroys several more DESTROYER DROIDS.

INT. NABOO STARFIGHTER - COCKPIT -SPACE

ANAKIN finds himself in the middle of the space battle. A ship explodes
behind him (over his left shoulder).

ANAKIN : Whoo, boy! This is tense!

He looks forward to see enemy ships approaching head on.

ANAKN : (Cont'd) : Oops! Artoo, get us off Autopilot!

ARTOO screams a reply.

ANAKIN : (Cont'd) I've got control?

ANAKIN fips switches.

ANAKIN : (Cont'd) Okay, let's go left!

He moves the controls left and the ship responds, turning left.

ANAKIN : (Cont'd) Yes...I've got control. You did it, Artoo!

ARTOO beeps

ANAKIN : (Cont'd) Go back!?! Qui-Gon told me to stay in this cockpit and
that's what I'm gonna do. Now c'mon!

An enemy fighter comes into his sights. ANAKIN pushes the controls and
instead of firing, his fighter accelerates past the enemy ship.

ANAKIN : (Cont'd) Oops! Whoa!

Now the enemy ship is on his tail. He tries evasive maneauvers.

ANAKIN : (Cont'd) I'll try spinning, that's a good trick.

ANAKIN rolls the ship as ARTOO screams desperately.

ANAKIN : (Cont'd) I know we're in trouble! Hang on! The way out of this
mess is the way we got into it.

ARTOO beeps a reply.

ANAKIN : (Cont'd) Which one? This one?

ANAKIN yanks on the reverse thrusters and the ship slows instantly- the
enemy fighter shoots past and explodes against the space station.

INT. NABOO STARFIGHTER - COCKPIT - SPACE

The SQUADRON attacks the space station.

RIC OLIE : Bravo flight...go for the central bridge.
BRAVO TWO : ROger, Bravo Leader.

The attack is fruitless.

RIC OLIE : Their deflector shield is too strong. We'll never get through
it.

Meanwhile, ANAKIN is being chased by another fighter. ARTOO shrieks.

ANAKIN : I know, Artoo! This isn't Podracing!

The enemy ship fires and hits ANAKIN's fighter, sending it into a spin.
ARTOO screams.

ANAKIN : (Cont'd) We're hit!

ANAKIN regains control as his ship enters the space station hanger.

ANAKIN : (Cont'd) Great gobs of bantha poo-doo!

ANAKIN's ship dodges parked transport ships and other obstacles. A huge
bulkhead blocks his way. ARTOO beeps.

ANAKIN : (Cont'd) I'm trying to stop! I'm trying to stop! Whoa!

ANAKIN hits the reverse thrusters and the ship skids to a stop on the
hanger deck. ARTOO givesout a worried whistle.

ANAKIN : (Cont'd) All right! All right! Get the system started!

ANAKIN ducks down to adjust a control panel.

ANAKIN : (Cont'd) Everything's overheated. All the lights are red.

ARTOO sees DROIDS appraoching, and beeps frantically.

INT. THEED - POWER GENERATOR PIT - DAY

The laser sword battle continues on the small catwalk around the vast power
pit. DARTH MAUL kicks OBI-WAN off one of the ramps and he falls several
levels. QUI-GON knocks the DARK LORD off another ramp, and he lands hard on
a ramp two levels below. QUI-GON jumps down after him. The DARK LORD backs
away along the catwalk into a small door. QUI-GON follows as OBI-WAN runs
to catch up.

INT. THEED - POWER GENERATOR ELECRIC BEAM - HALLWAY

The SITH LORD, followed by QUI-GON, enters a long hallway filled with a
series of deadly rays that go on and off in a pulsing pattern that shoots
down the corridor every minute or so. DARTH MAUL makes it down several
walls of deadly rays before they close. QUI-GON is one wall away from the
DARK LORD. OBI-WAN is just starting into it and is five walls way from
DARTH MAUL.
The JEDI must wait until the next pulse to advance down the corridor.
OBI-WAN is impatient and paces, waiting for the wall of rays to open.
QUI-GON sits and meditates. The SITH LORD tries to patch up his wounds.

INT. THEED - PALACE - HALLWAY TO THRONE ROOM

A window in the hallway blasts apart. PADME, CAPTAIN PANAKA, and HER
SOLDIERS climb into the hallway. They head for the door to the throne roo.
Suddenly, two DESTROYER DROIDS skitter in front of the door. PADME turns
around and sees TWO MORE appear at the far end of the hallway, trapping
them in the middle.
PADME throws down her pistol and turns to CAPTAIN PANAKA.

PADME : Throw down your weapons. They win this round.
CAPT. PANAKA : But we can't....
PADME : Captain, I said throw down your weapons.

CAPTAIN PANAKA and HIS MEN throw down their weapons.

EXT. NABOO GRASS PLAINS - DAY

A DESTROYER DROID blasts one of the shield generators, causing it to
EXPLODE. The protective shield begins to weaken and fall apart.OOM-9 sees
the shield weaken and orders his tanks forward. The GUNGAN GENERAL signals
a retreat as the tanks enter the battle.
The GUNGANS flee as fast as they can. JAR JAR is blown off his KAADU and
lands on one of the tank guns. A GUNGAN WARRIOR signals JAR JAR to jump
off. JAR JAR is afraid. The gun swings around trying to knock JAR JAR off.
JAR JAR hangs from the tank barrel as it moves along. Finally, he jumps
onto a KAADU behind a GUNGAN WARRIOR. EXPLOSIONS from the tank fire are
everywhere. It is chaos.

INT. THEED - POWER GENERATOR ELECTRIC BEAM - HALLWAY

The electric rays cycle as QUI-GON sits meditating. The wall of the deadly
rays turn away, and OBI-WAN starts running toward QUI-GON and the DARK
LORD. When the wall between QUI-GON and DARTH MAUL opens, QUI-GON is in a
split second fighting the DARK LORD with a ferocity not seen before. They
move into the area at the end of the corridor called the melting pit, a
small area that is mostly made up of a deep hole.
The electron ray gates begin to close. OBI-WAN tries to make it to the
melting pit but is caught one gate short. He slides to a stop just before
he hits the deadly electron field.
QUI-GON and DARTH MAUL battle around the melting pit as a frustrated
OBI-WAN watches.
DARTH MAUL cathces QUI-GON off guard. The SITH makes a quick move, bashes
his lightsaber handle into QUI-GON's chin, and runs him through. QUI-GON
slumps to the floor in a heap.

EXT. NABOO GRASS PLAINS - DAY

The GUNGANS have beeb overrun. Some flee into the hills, chased by BATTLE
DROIDS on STAPS. Many OTHERS are herded into groups by BATTLE DROIDS and
DESTROYER DROIDS.
JAR JAR and GENERAL CEEL are held in a small group with OTHER OFFICERS.

JAR JAR : Dissa bad, berry bombad.
GENERAL CEEL : Mesa hopen dissa working for da Queen.

INT. THED - PALACE THRONE ROOM - DAY

PADME, CAPTAIN PANAKA, and SIX OTHER OFFICERS are brought by TEN BATTLE
DROIDS before NUTE and RUNE and FOUR NEIMOIDIAN COUNCIL MEMBERS.

NUTE : Your little insurrection is at an end, Your Highness. Time for you
to sign the treaty...and end this pointless debate in the Senate.

SADBE dressed like the Queen appears in the doorway with SEVERAL TROOPS.
Several destroyed battle droids can be seen in the distance.

SABE : I will not be signing any treaty, Viceroy, because you've lost!

NUTE and THE OTHERS are stunned to see a SECOND QUEEN. NUTE yells at the
TEN GUARDS in the room.

NUTE : After her! This one is a decoy!

SIX OF THE DROIDS rush out of the throne room after SABE. NUTE turns to
PADME.

NUTE : (Cont'd) Your Queen will not get away with this.

PADME slumps down on her throne and immediately hits a security button that
opens a panel in her desk opposite CAPTAIN PANAKA.
PADME grabs two pistols, tosses one of the to CAPTAIN PANAKA and one to an
OFFICER. She takes a third pistol and BLASTS the last of the BATTLE DROIDS.
The OFFICERS rush to the door control panel as PADME hits the switch to
close the door. The OFFICER at the door jams the controls. CAPTAIN PANAKA
throws more pistols to the OTHER GUARDS. The NEIMODIANS are confused and
afraid.

PADME : Now, Viceroy, this is the end of your occupation here.
NUTE : Don't be absurd. There are too few of you. It won't be long before
hundreds of destroyer droids break in to rescue us.

INT. THEED - POWER GENERATOR - MELTING PIT

OBI-WAN screams as the pulsing electron gate opens, and the SITH LORD
attacks him. The DARK LORD is relentless in his assault on the young JEDI.
OBI-WAN and DARTH MAUL use the Force to fling objects at each other as they
fight. DARTH MAUL seems to have the upper hand as OBI-WAN grows weary.
DARTH MAUL catches OBI-WAN off guard, and the JEDI slips into a melting
pit. He is barely able to hold onto a nozzle on the side of the pit. DARTH
MAUL grin evilly at OBI-WAN as he kicks OBI-WAN's lightsaber down the
endless shaft.
The SITH LORD smiles as he goes in for the kill. At the last moment,
OBI-WAN jumps up out of the pit, calls QUI-GON's lightsaber to hi, throwing
DARTH MAUL off. The young JEDI swings with a vengeance, cutting the SITH
down. DARTH MAUL falls into the melting pit to his death.
OBI-WAN rushes over to QUI-GON, who is dying.

OBI-WAN : Master! Master!
QUI-GON : It is too late...It's...
OBI-WAN : No!
QUI-GON : Obi-Wan promise...promise me you'll train the boy...
OBI-WAN : Yes, Master...
QUI-GON : He is the chosen one...he will...bring balance...train him!

QUI-GON dies. OBI-WAN cradles his Master, quietly weeping.

INT. NABOO STARFIGHTER - COCKPIT - FEDERATION HANGER

ANAKIN peeks over the edge of the cockpit to see BATTLE DROIDS surrounding
the ship. He ducks back down.

ANAKIN : Uh oh. This is not good.

He looks at the dashboard to see red lights.

ANAKIN : (Cont'd) The systems are still overheated, Artoo.

The BATTLE DROID CAPTAIN walks up to the ship and sees ARTOO.

BATTLE DROID CAPTAIN : Where's your pilot?

ARTOO beeps a reply.

BATTLE DROID CAPTAIN : (Cont'd) You're the pilot?

ARTOO whistles.

BATTLE DROID CAPTAIN : (Cont'd) Let me see your identification!

ANAKIN sees the dashboard lights go from red to green.

ANAKIN : Yes...we have ignition.

He flips the switch and the engine starts.

BATTLE DROID CAPTAIN : (seeing Anakin) You! Come out of there or we'll
blast you!
ANAKIN : Not if I can help it! Shields up!

ANAKIN flips a switch and the ship levitates, knocking over the BATTLE
DROID CAPTAIN. The OTHER DROIDS shoot, but the lasers are deflected by
ANAKIN's shields. ARTOO beeeps.

ANAKIN : (Cont'd) This should stop them.

ANAKIN fires lasers as the ship begins to rotate.

ANAKIN : (Cont'd) ...and take this!

He presses a button and launches two torpedos which miss the DROIDS.

ANAKIN : (Cont'd) Darn...I missed!

The two torpedos fly down a hallway and explode inside the reactor room.

ANAKIN : (Cont'd) Let's get out of here!

ANAKIN's ship roars through the hanger deck, bouncing over the DROIDS.

ANAKIN : (Cont'd) Now, this is Podracing! Whoopee!

INT. FEDERATION BATTLESHIP - BRIDGE

TEY HOW turns to CAPTAIN DOFINE.

TEY HOW : Sir, we're losing power... There is some problem with the main
reactor...
DOFINE : Impossible!! I don't...

The bridge explodes.

INT. NABOO FIGHTER - COCKPIT - SPACE

RIC OLIE watches in amazement as the Federation battleship starts to
explode from the inside out.

BRAVO TWO : What's that?? It's blowing up from the inside.
RIC OLIE : I don't know, we didn't hit it.
BRAVO THREE : Look! One of ours! Outta the main hold!!

EXT. NABOO GRASS PLAINS - DAY

Suddenly, all of the DROIDS begin to shake upside down, run around in
circles, then stop. The GUNGANS carefully move out to inspect the FROZEN
DROIDS. JAR JAR pushes one of the BATTLE DROIDS, and it falls over.

JAR JAR : Wierdind...

EXT. THEED - CENTRAL HANGER - DAY

ANAKIN and ARTOO follow the squad of yellow Naboo starfighters into the
main hanger.

INT. THEED - CENTRAL HANGER - DAY

RIC OLIE and the OTHER PILOTS gather around as thye exit their ships.

BRAVO TWO : He flew into the hold, behind the deflector shield and blasted
the main reactor...
BRAVO THREE : Amazing... They don't teach that in the academy.

ANAKIN's ship skids to a stop behind the other Naboo starfighters. RIC
OLIE, BRAVO TWO, the OTHER PILOTS, and GROUND CREW rush to his ship.

RIC OLIE : We're all accounted for. Who flew that ship?

ANAKIN sheepishly opens the cockpit and stands up. All the PILOTS stare in
amazement.

ANAKIN : I'm not going to get into trouble, am I?

ARTOO beeps. oh. oh.

INT. MAIN HANGER - COURTYARD - DAY

The large, grand cruiser of the Supreme Chancellor lands in the courtyard
of the main hanger. CAPTAIN PANAKA and TWENTY TROOPS guard NUTE GUNRAY and
RUNE HAAKO. OBI-WAN, the QUEEN, and her HANDMAIDENS stand before the
NEIMOIDIANS.

PADME : Now, Viceroy, you are going to have to go back to the Senate and
explain all this.
CAPT. PANAKA : I think you can kiss your Trade franchise goodbye.

The main ramp of the cruiser is lowered as OBI-WAN and CAPTAIN PANAKA lead
the VICEROY and HIS ASSISTANT toward the ship. The GRAND CHANCELLOR
PALPATINE and SEVERAL REPUBLIC GUARDS descend the walkway, followed by YODA
and SEVERAL OTHER JEDI MASTERS.

The CHANCELLOR PALPATINE is greeted by the QUEEN.

AMIDALA : Congratulations on youer election, Chancellor. It is so good to
see you again.
PALPATINE : It's good to be home. Your boldness has saved our people, Your
Majesty. It is you who should be congratulated. Together we shall bring
peace and prosperity to the Republic.

OBI-WAN greets YODA and the OTHER JEDI as CAPTAIN PANAKA takes the
NEIMODIANS onto the cruiser.

INT. TURRET ROOM - NABOO PALACE - LATE DAY

The sun streams into the multi-windowed room at a low angle. It is not
quite sunset. YODA paces before OBI-WAN, who is kneeling in the center of
the room.

YODA : Confer on you, the level of Jedi Knight the Coucil does. But agree
on you taking this boy as your Padawan learner, I do not.
OBI-WAN : Qui-Gon believed in him. I believe in Qui-Gon.
YODA : The Chosen One the boy may be; nevertheless, grave danger I fear in
his training.
OBI-WAN : Master Yoda, Igave Qui-Gon my word. I will train Anakin. Without
the approval of the Council if I must.
YODA : Qui-Gon's defiance I sense in you. Need that, you do not. Agree, the
council does. Your apprentice, young Skywalker will be.

EXT. THEED - CENTRAL PLAZA - FUNERAL TEMPLE STEPS - SUNSET

QUI-GON's body goes up in flames as the JEDI COUNCIL, the QUEEN, SIO
BIBBLE, CAPTAIN PANAKA, the HANDMAIDENS, and ABOUT ONE HUNDRED NABOO
TROOPES, TWENTY OTHER JEDI, PALPATINE, OBI-WAN (standing with ANAKIN), JAR
JAR, BOSS NASS, and TWENTY OTHER GUNGAN WARRIORS watch. There is a drum
roll that stops. Doves are released, and the body is gone. ANAKIN looks to
OBI-WAN.

OBI-WAN : He is one with the Force, Anakin...You must let go.
ANAKIN : What will happen to me now?
OBI-WAN : I am your Master now. You will become a Jedi, I promise.

To one side, MACE WINDU turns to YODA.

MACE WINDU : There is no doubt. The mysterious warrior was a Sith.
YODA : Always two there are....no more...no less. A maste and an
apprentice.
MACE WINDU : But which one was destroyed, the master or the apprentice?

They give each other a concerned look.

EXT. THEED - CENTRAL PLAZA - DAY

CHILDEREN SING and throw flowers on the passing GUNGAN SOLDIERS. The CROWDS
CHEER. It is a grand parade.
QUEEN AMIDALA stands next to the SUPREME CHANCELLOR PALPATINE, ANAKIN,
OBI-WAN, SIO BIBBLE, and the JEDI COUNCIL. ARTOO stands in front of the
QUEEN'S HANDMAIDENS and whistles at the parade. QUEEN AMIDALA and PALPATINE
smile at one another
In the parade are BOSS NASS and his GUARDS, JAR JAR and GENERAL CEEL. The
GUNGANS ride KAADU. They stop before the QUEEN and walk up the steps to
stand by her side.BOSS NASS holds up the Globe of Peace. EVERYONE CHEERS.
The parade marches on.

IRIS OUT

End titles

EXT. SPACE
A vast sea of stars severas as a backdrop for the Main Title, following by a rollup, which crawls into infinity.

There is unrest in the Galactic Senate
Several hundred solar systems under
the leadership of the rebel leader, Count
Dooku, have decalred their intentions to
secede from the Republic.

This separatist movement has made it
difficult for the limited number of
Jedi Kights to maintain peace and
order in the galaxy.

Senator Amidala, the former Queen of
Naboo, is returning to Coruscant
to vote on the critical issue
of creating an army to assist the
overwhelmed Jedi.

PAN UP to reveal the amber city planet of Coruscant. A yellow Naboo Fighter flies OVER CAMERA toward the planet, followed by a large Royal Cruiser and two more Fighters.

EXT. CITYSCAPE, CORUSCANT - DAWN
The ships skim across the surface of the city landscape. The sun glints off the chrome hulls of the sleek Naboo spacecraft as they navigate between the buildings of the capital planet.

EXT. CORUSCANT, LANDING PLATFORM - DAWN
Two Naboo Fighters land on one leaf of a three-leaf-clover landing platform. The Royal Starship lands on the central lead, and the third Fighter lands on the remaining plaform.

A small GROUP OF DIGNITARIES waits to welcome the Senator. One of the members of the group os a well dressed JAR JAR BINKS, a member of the Galactic Representative Commission, and DORME, Senator Amidala's handmaiden.

One of the FIGHTER PILOTS jumps from the wing of his ship and removes his helmet. He is CAPTAIN TYPHO, SENATOR AMIDALA'S Security Officer. He moves over to a WOMAN PILOT.

CAPTAIN TYPHO
We made it. I guess I was wrong,
there was no danger at all.

The ramp ;pwers. TWO NABOO GUARDS appear. SENATOR AMIDALA, ONE HANDMAIDEN (VERSE) and FOUR TROOPERS descend the ramp. AMIDALA is more beautiful now than she was ten years earlier when, as Queen, she was freeing her people from the yoke of the Trade Federation.

The DIGNITARIES start to move forward. SENATOR AMIDALA reaches the foot of the ramp, when suddenly there is a blinding FLASH and a huge EXPLOSION. The DIGNITARIES and PILOTS are hurled to the ground as the starship is destroyed.

Klaxons blare, alarms sound! CAPTAIN TYPHO and the TWO ESCORT PILOTS get up and run to where SENATOR AMIDALA lies dying. Beyond, ARTOO DETOO drops down from the Naboo Fighter and rolls toward the wreckage. The FEMALE ESCORT PILOT kneels by SENATOR AMIDALA and takes off her helmet, revealing SENATOR PADME AMIDALA.

PADM√â 
Cord√©...

She gathers up her decoy double in her arms. Cord√©'s eyes are open. She looks up at her.

CORD√â
... I'm sorry, m'lady... I'm... not sure I... 

CORD√â dies. PADM√â hugs her.

AMIDALA
No!... No!... No!...

PADM√â lowers CORD√â to the ground. She gets up and looks around at the devastation. There are tears in her eyes.

AMIDALA
I should not have come back.

CAPTAIN TYPHO
M'Lady, you are still in danger.

Amidala says nothing.

CAPTAIN TYPHO
This vote is very important. You did
your duty and Cord√© did hers. Now
come. (she doesn't respond) M'Lady,
please!

She turns. They walk away. ARTOO lets out a small whimper and rolls off after them.

EXT. SENATE BUILDING - DAY 
The massive Senate Building glistens in the afternoon sun. Small patches of fog have still to burn off.

INT. SENATE CHAMBER - DAY
The vast rotunda is buzzing with chatter. MAS AMEDDA, the Supreme Chancellor's majordomo, tries to quiet things down as PALPATINE confers with an AIDE, UV GIZEN, riding a small one man floating scooter.

MAS AMEDDA
Order! We shall have order! The motion
for the Republic to commission an army
takes precedent, and that is what we
will vote on at this time.

Everything quiets down. The AIDE disperses, and SUPREME CHANCELLOR PALPATINE steps to the podium.

PALPATINE
...My esteemed colleagues, excuse
me... I have just received some
tragic and disturbing news. Senator
Amidala of the Naboo system... Has
been assassinated!

There is a shock silence in the vast arena.

PALPATINE
(continued)
This grievous blow is especially
personal to me. Before I became
Chancellor, I served Amidala when
she was Queen. She was a great
leader who fought for justice, not
only in this honourable assembly,
but also on her home planet. She
was so loved she could have been
elected queen for life. She
believed in public service, and
she fervently believed in
democracy. Her death is a great
loss to us all. We will all mourn
her as a relentless champion of
freedom... and as a dear friend.

There is a moment of silence. ASK AAK, the SENATOR of MALASTARE, moves his pod into the centre of the arena.

SENATOR ASK AAK
How many more Senators will die
before this civil strife ends! We
must confront these rebels now,
and they need an army to do it.

A second pod moves into the centre of the area with DARSANA, the 
AMBASSADOR OF GLEE ANSELM.

AMBASSADOR DARSANA
Why weren't the Jedi able to stop
this assassination? We are no
longer safe, under their protection.

Senator ORN FREE TAA swings forward in his pod.

ORN FREE TAA
The Republic needs more security
now! Before it comes to war.

PALPATINE
Must I remind the Senator from
Malastare that negotiations are
continuing with the separatists.
Peace is our objective here... not
war.

The SENATORS yell pro and con. MAS AMEDDA tries to calm things down. SENATOR PADME AMIDALA, with CAPTAIN TYPHO, JAR JAR, and DORME, manoeuvre her pod into the centre of the vast arena.

AMIDALA
My noble colleagues, I concur with
the Supreme Chancellor. At all
costs, we do not want war!

The Senate goes quiet, then there is an outburst of cheering and 
applause.

PALPATINE
It is with great surprise and
joy the chair recognises the
Senator from Naboo, Padm√© Amidala.

PADM√â
Less than an hour ago, an
assassination attempt was made
against my life. One of my
bodyguards and six  others were
ruthlessly and senselessly
murdered. I was the target but,
more importantly, I believe this
security measure before you, was
the target. I have led the
opposition to build an army... but
there is someone in this body who
will stop at nothing to assure it's
passage...

Many of the SENATORS boo and yell at SENATOR AMIDALA.

PADM√â
(continuing)
I warn you, if you vote to create
this army, war will follow. I
have experienced the misery of war 
first-hand; I do not wish to do it
again.

There is sporadic yelling for and against her statements.

PADM√â
Wake up, Senators... you must wake
up! If you offer the separatists
violence, they can only show us
violence in return! Many will
lose their lives. All will lose
their freedom. This decision
could very well destroy the very
foundation of our great Republic.
I pray you do not let fear push
you into a disastrous decision.
Vote down this security measure,
which is nothing less than a
declaration of war! Does anyone
here want that? I cannot believe
they do.

There is an undercurrent of booing... and groaning. SENATOR ORN FREE TAA moves his pod next to AMIDALA.

ORN FREE TAA
My motion to defer the vote must
be dealt with first. That is the
rule of law.

AMIDALA looks angry and frustrated. PALPATINE gives her a sympathetic look.

PALPATINE
Due to the lateness of the hour
and the seriousness of this
motion, we will take up these
matters tomorrow. Until then, the
Senate stands adjourned.

EXT. EXECUTIVE QUARTERS BUILDING - DAY 
The giant towers of the Republic Executive Building seem to reach the heavens. Traffic clogs the smoggy sky.

INT. CHANCELLOR'S OFFICE - DAY 
CHANCELLOR PALPATINE sits behind his desk with TWO RED-CLAD ROYAL GUARDS on either side of the door. YODA, PLOT KOON, KI-AD-MUNDI, and MACE WINDU sit acress from him.

PALPATINE
I don't know how much longer I can
hold off the vote, my friends.
More and more star systems are
joining the separatists.

MACE WINDU
If they do break away -

PALPATINE
No! I will not let that happen!

MACE WINDU
But if they do, you must realise
there aren't enough Jedi to
protect the Republic. We are
keepers of the peace, not soldiers.

PALPATINE
Master Yoda, do you think it will
really come to war?

YODA closes his eyes.

YODA
Worse than war, I fear... Much
worse. 

PALPATINE
What?

MACE WINDU
What do you sense, Master?

YODA
Impossible to see ... The Dark Side
clouds everything. But this I am
sure of -
(opens his eyes)
Do their duty the Jedi will.

A muted BUZZER SOUNDS. A hologram of an AIDE, DAR WAC, appears on the Chancellor's desk.

DAR WAC
The loyalist committee has arrived,
my Lord. 

PALPATINE
Send them in.

They all stand as SENATOR AMIDALA, CAPTAIN TYPHO, JAR JAR, MAS AMEDDA, DORME, and SENATORS BAIL ORGANA, HOROX RYYDER and ORN FREE TAA enter the office. YODA and MACE WINDU move to greet the SENATOR, YODA taps AMIDALA with his cane.

YODA
With you the force is strong...
young Senator. To see you alive
brings warm feeling to my heart.

PADM√â
Thank you, Master Yoda. Do you
have any idea who was behind
the attack?

MACE WINDU
Our intelligence points to
disgruntled spice miners, on
the moons of Naboo.

PADM√â
I don't wish to disagree but I
think that Count Dooku was behind
it.

There is a stir of surprise.

MACE WINDU
You know, M'Lady, Count Dooku
was once a Jedi. He wouldn't
assassinate anyone, it is not in
his character.

KI-ADI-MUNDI
He is a political idealist, not
a murderer.

YODA
In dark times nothing is what it
appears to be, but the fact remains
Senator, in grave danger you are.

PALPATINE gets up, walks to the window, and looks out at the vast city.

PALPATINE
Count Dooku has always avoided
any kind of conflict. It appears
he has no desire to start a war.
Why would he kill you? To what end?

PADM√â 
I don't know, but everything in my
being tells me he was behind it... 

After gazing out of the window for several moments Palpatine turns to 
Mace.

PALPATINE
Master Jedi, may I suggest that
the Senator be placed under the
protection of your graces.

BAIL ORGANA
Do you think that is a wise use
of manpower during these stressful
times?

PADM√â
Chancellor, if I may comment, I
do not believe the...

PALPATINE
..."situation is that serious."
No, but I do, Senator.

PADM√â
Chancellor, please! I don't want
any more guards!

PALPATINE
I realise all too well that
additional security might be
disruptive for you, but perhaps
someone you are familiar with... an
old friend like... Master Kenobi...

PALPATINE nods to MACE WINDU, who nods back.

MACE WINDU
That's possible. He has just
returned from a Border dispute on
Ansion.

PALPATINE
You must remember him, M'Lady...
he watched over you during the
blockade conflict.

PADM√â
This is not necessary, Chancellor.

PALPATINE
Do it for me, M'Lady, please. I
will rest easier. We had a big
scare today. The thought of
losing you is unbearable.

AMIDALA sighs as the JEDI get up to leave.

MACE WINDU
I will have Obi-Wan report to you
immediately, M'Lady.

YODA leans into her ear.

YODA
Too little about yourself you
worry, Senator, and too much about
politics. Be mindful of your
danger, Padm√©. Accept our help.

As the JEDI leave the office, PALPATINE continues to pace behind his desk.

PALPATINE
I will not like this Republiv, that
has stood for over a thousand
years, be split in two

EXT. SENATE APARTMENTS - TWILIGHT
A graceful skyscraper twinkles in the evening light of Coruscant.

INT. SENATE BUILDING, APARTMENT CORRIDOR - EVENING
The door to the apartment slides open. JAR JAR walks into the corridor, where TWO JEDI are exiting the elevator. He recognises OBI-WAN and becomes extremely excited, jumping around, shaking his hand.

JAR JAR
Obi! Obi! Obi! Mesa sooo smilen
to see'en yousa. Wahoooooo!

OBI-WAN smiles.

OBI-WAN
It's Good to see you, too, Jar Jar.

JAR JAR
Oops! Wheresa mesa manners?
Excuse me, Master Obi-Wan. I
completely forgot myself for
a moment there. I have had to learn
Diplodiaclect... speak it like a
native now. Don't really see the
point, actually, but members of
the Senate seem to prefer it...

JAR JAR notices OBI-WAN'S APPRENTICE.

JAR JAR
(continuing)
...and this, I take it, is your
apprentice... Nooooooooo! Annie?
Noooooooo! Little Bitty Annie?
(Looks at Anakin)
Nooooooo! Yousa so biggen!
Yiyiyiyyi! Annie!! Mesa no
believen.

ANAKIN
Hi, Jar Jar.

JAR JAR grabs hold of ANAKIN and envelops him in a big hug.

JAR JAR
Annie! Annie! Yiyiyiyiyiyiiii!

INT. SENATE BUILDING, APARTMENT - EVENING
PADME is in a conference with CAPTAIN TYPHO and DORME. JAR JAR enters the room, followed by the TWO JEDI.

JAR JAR
Lookie... lookie... Oops!... Oh,
dear, I'm afraid I've forgotten
myself again.

PADME and TYPHO rise as OBI-WAN and ANAKIN stop before the SENATOR. OBI-WAN steps forward. ANAKIN stares at PADME. She glances at him.

OBI-WAN
It's a great pleasure to see you again,
M'Lady.

PADM√â
It has been far too long Master
Kenobi. I'm so glad our paths
have crossed again... but I must
warn you that I think your
presence here is unnecessary.

OBI-WAN
I'm sure the Jedi Council have
their reasons.

She moves in front of ANAKIN

PADM√â
Annie??
(stares)
My goodness you've grown.

They look at each other for a long moment.

ANAKIN
(trying to be smooth)
So have you... grown more
beautiful, I mean... and much
shorter... for a Senator, I mean.

OBI-WAN looks disapprovingly at his apprentice. PADME laughs and shakes her head.

PADM√â
Oh Annie, you'll always be that
little boy I knew on Tatooine.

This embarrasses ANAKIN, and he looks down. OBI-WAN and CAPTAIN TYPHO smile.

OBI-WAN
Our presence will be invisible,
M'Lady.

CAPTAIN TYPHO
I am very grateful you are here,
Master Kenobi. The situation is
more dangerous than the Senator
will admit.

PADM√â
I don't need more security, I need
answers. I want to know who is
trying to kill me.

OBI-WAN
(frowning)
We're here to protect you
Senator, not to start an
investigation.

ANAKIN
We will find out who is trying to
kill you Padm√©, I promise you.

He's done it again. He bites his lip in frustration and shame. OBI-WAN gives ANAKIN a dirty look.

OBI-WAN
We are not going to exceed our
mandate, my young Padawan learner.

ANAKIN
I meant in the interest of
protecting her, Master, of course.

OBI-WAN
We are not going through this
exercise again, Anakin. You will
pay attention to my lead.

ANAKIN
Why?

OBI-WAN
What??!!

ANAKIN
Why else do you think we were
assigned to her, if not to find
the killer? Protection is a job
for local security... not Jedi.
It's overkill, Master.
Investigation is implied in our
mandate.

OBI-WAN
We will do as the Council has
instructed, and you will learn
your place, young one.

PADM√â
Perhaps with merely your presence,
the mysteries surrounding this
threat will be revealed.  Now if
you will excuse me I will retire.

Everyone gives AMIDALA a slight bow as she and DORME leave the room.

CAPTAIN TYPHO
Well, I know I feel a lot better
having you here.
I'll have an officer on every
floor and I'll be at the command
centre downstairs.

JAR JAR 
Mesa busten wit happiness seein
Yousa again, Annie. Deesa bad
times, bombad times.

Captain Typho leaves.

ANAKIN
She didn't even recognise me, Jar
Jar. I thought about her every
day since we parted... and she's
forgotten me completely.

JAR JAR
Shesa happy. Happier den mesa
see-en her in longo time.

OBI-WAN
Anakin, you're focusing on the
Negative again. Be mindful of your
thoughts. She was glad to see us.
Now lets check the security here.

ANAKIN
Yes, my master.

EXT. JEDI TEMPLE - EVENING
The vast Jedi Temple sits on an endless flat plain, silhouetted by a against the traffic-filled sky.

INT. JEDI TEMPLE, CORRIDOR - EVENING
MACE WINDU and YODA walk down the long hallways, silhouetted by a lit room at the end.

MACE WINDU
Why couldn't we see this attack on
the Senator?

YODA
Masking the future, is this
disturbance in the Force.

MACE WINDU
The propecy is coming true, the
Dark Side is growing.

YODA
And only those who have turned to
the Dark Side can sense the
possibilities of the future. Only
going through the Dark Side can we
see.

MACE WINDU
It's been ten years, and the Sith
still have no shown themselves.
Do you think they are behind this?

YODA
...Out there, they are. A
certainty that is.

MACE WINDU
Do you think Obi-Wan's apprentice
will be able to bring balance to
the Force?

YODA
Only if he chooses to follow his
destiny.

There is a long silence as they walk away. Only footsteps are heard.

INT. SENATE BUILDING, AMIDALA'S APARTMENT, BEDROOM - NIGHT
PADME is asleep in her bed, lit only by the light of the city outside her window coming through the blinds. ARTOO stands in the corner of the bedroom. His power is off.

INT. SENATE BUILDING, AMIDALA'S APARTMENT, MAIN R0OM - NIGHT
ANAKIN is standing in the living room. He is in a meditative state. It is quiet. We hear DISTANT FOOTSTEPS in the corridor outside the apartment. Suddenly ANAKIN'S eyes pop open. His eyes dart around the room. He reaches for his lightsaber, then smiles and puts it back in his belt.

The door to the apartment slides open, and OBI-WAN enters.

OBI-WAN
Captain Typho has more than enough
men downstairs. No assassin will
try that way. Any activity up
here?

ANAKIN
Quiet as a tomb. I don't like
just waiting here for something to
happen to her.

OBI-WAN checks a palm-sized view scanner he has pulled out of his utility belt. It shows a shot of ARTOO by the door, but no sign of PADME on the bed.

OBI-WAN
What's going on?

ANAKIN shrugs.

ANAKIN
She covered that camera. I don't
think she liked me watching her.

OBI-WAN
What is she thinking?

ANAKIN
She programmed Artoo to warn us if
there's an intruder.

OBI-WAN
It's not an intruder I'm worried
about. There are many other ways
to kill a Senator.

ANAKIN
I know, but we also want to catch
this assassin. Don't we, Master?

OBI-WAN
You're using her as bait??

ANAKIN
It was her idea... No harm will
come to her. I can sense
everything going on in that room.
Trust me.

OBI-WAN
It's too risky... and your senses
aren't that attuned, young
apprentice.

ANAKIN
And yours are?

OBI-WAN
Possibly.

INT. SENATE BUILDING, AMIDALA'S APARTMENT, BEDROOM - NIGHT
As PADME sleeps, a PROBE DROID approaches outside her window. It sends out several small arms that attach to the window, creating sparks that shut down the security system. Then a large arm cuts a small hole in the glass. A FAINT SOUND is heard as the small section of glass is removed from the window.

ARTOO wakes up, and his lights go on. The PROBE DROID freezes. ARTOO looks around, makes a PLAINTIVE LITTLE SOUND, then shuts down again. The PROBE DROID attaches a little tube to the window. TWO DEADLY LOOKING CENTIPEDE-LIKE KOUHUNS exit the tube, crawl through the blinds and head toward the sleeping PADME.

INT. SENATE BUILDING, AMIDALA'S APARTMENT, MAIN ROOM - NIGHT
ANAKIN and OBI-WAN continue their conversation in the main room of the apartment.

OBI-WAN 
You look tired.

ANAKIN
I don't sleep well, anymore.

OBI-WAN 
Because of your mother?

ANAKIN
I don't know why I keep dreaming
About her now. I haven't seen her
since I was little.

OBI-WAN
Dreams pass in time.

ANAKIN
I'd rather dream of Padm√©. Just
Being around her again is...
intoxicating.

OBI-WAN
Mind your thoughts, Anakin, they
betray you. You've made a
commitment to the Jedi order... a
commitment not easily broken...
and don't forget she's a
politician. They're not to be
trusted.

ANAKIN 
She's not like the others in the
Senate, Master.

OBI-WAN
It's been my experience that
Senators are only focused on
pleasing those who fund their
campaigns... and they are more
than willing to forget the
niceties of democracy to get those
funds.

ANAKIN
Not another lecture, Master. Not
on the economics of politics....
It's too early in the morning... and
besides, you're generalising. The
Chancellor doesn't appear to
be corrupt.

OBI-WAN
Palpatine's a politician, I've
observed that he is very clever at
following the passions and
prejudices of the Senators.

ANAKIN
I think he is a good man. My
instincts are very positive
about...

ANAKIN looks stunned. He looks sharply at OBI-WAN

OBI-WAN
I sense it, too.

INT. SENATE BUILDING, AMIDALA'S APARTMENT, BEDROOM - NIGHT
ARTOO sounds an alarm and shines a light on the bed. THE KOUHUNS are inches from PADME'S face. Their mouths are open, and wicked stinger tongues flick out.


OBI-WAN and ANAKIN burst into the room. The KOUHUNS stand on their hind legs and hiss as PADME wakes up. ANAKIN throws himself in front of her, whacking in half the deadly creatures with his lightsaber.

OBI-WAN sees the DROID outside the window and raqces straight at it, crashing through the blinds as he goes through the window.

EXT. WINDOW LEDGE, APARTMENT BUILDING - NIGHT
OBI-WAN flies through the glass window and flings himself at the PROBE DROID, grabbing onto the deadly machine before it can flee. The PROBE DROID sinks under the weight of OBI-WAN but manages to stay afloat and fly away, with the Jedi hanging on for dear life, a hundred stories above the city.

INT. SENATE BUILDING, AMIDALA'S APARTMENT - NIGHT
ANAKIN and PADME stare at the sight of OBI-WAN being carried off by the DROID. ANAKIN turns to her. She pulls her nightdress around her shoulders.

ANAKIN
Stay here!

CAPTAIN TYPHO, with TWO GUARDS and DORME, enter the room as Anakin dashes out.

EXT. CITYSCAPE, CORUSCANT - NIGHT
The PROBE DROID sends several protective electrical shocks across its surface, causing OBI-WAN to almost lose his grip. As they dart in and out of the speeder traffic, OBI-WAN disconnects a wire on the back of the DROID. Its power shuts off! OBI-WAN and the DROID drop like rocks. OBI-WAN realises the error of his ways and quickly puts the wire back. The DROID'S systems light up again and it takes off. 

EXT. SENATE APARTMENTS - ENTRANCE - NIGHT
ANAKIN charges out of the building and runs to a line of parked speeders. He vaults into an open one and takes off, gunning it fast toward the lines of speeder traffic high above.

EXT. CITYSCAPE, CORUSCANT - NIGHT
The DROID bumps against a wall, hoping to knock the Jedi loose. It moves behind a speeder afterburner to scorch him. It takesthe JEDI wildly between buildings and finally skims across a rooftop as OBI-WAN is forced to lift his legs, tenaciously hanging onto the DROID. The DROID heads for a dirty, beat-up speeder hidden in an alcove of a building about twenty stories up. When the pilot of the speeder, a scruffy bounty hunter called ZAM WESELL, sees the DROID approach with OBI-WAN hanging on, she pulls a long rifle out of the speeder and starts to fire at the JEDI. EXPLOSIONS burst all around OBI-WAN.

OBI-WAN
I have a bad feeling about this.

FINALLY, the DROID suffers a direct hit and blows up. OBI-WAN falls fifty stories, until a speeder drops down next to him, and he manages to grab onto the back end of the speeder and haul himself toward the cockpit. The JEDI struggles to climb into the passenger seat of the open speeder and sit down next to the driver, ANAKIN.

ANAKIN
That was wacky! I almost lost you
in the traffic.

OBI-WAN
What took you so long?

ANAKIN
Oh, you know, Master, I couldn't
find a speeder I really liked,
with an open cockpit... and with
the right speed capabilities...
and then you know I had to get a
really gonzo color...

They zoom upward in hot pursuit of ZAM asshe fires out the open window at them with her laser pistol.

OBI-WAN
If you'd spend as much time
working on your saber skills as
you do on your wit, young Padawan,
you would rival Master Yoda as a
swordsman.

ANAKIN
I thought I already did.

OBI-WAN
Only in your mind, my very young
apprentice. Careful!! Hey, easy!!

As this conversation is going on, ANAKIN deftly moves in and out of the oncoming traffic, across lanes, between buildings, and miraculously through a construction site. ZAM WESELL continues firing at them.

ANAKIN
Sorry, I forgot you don't like
flying, Master.

OBI-WAN
I don't mind flying... but
what you're doing is suicide!

They barely miss a commuter train

ANAKIN
Master, you know I've been flying
since before I could walk. I'm very
good at this.

OBI-WAN
Just slow down!

ZAM WESSEL and the JEDI race through a line of cross-traffic made up of giant trucks. The speeders bank sideways as they slide around right-angle turns between buildings. ZAM races into a tram tunnel.

OBI-WAN
(continuing)
Wait! Don't go in there!

ANAKIN zooms into the tunnel after ZAM. They see a tram coming at them. They brake, turn around, and race out, barely ahead of the charging commuter transport.

OBI-WAN
(continuing)
You know I don't like it when you
do that!

ANAKIN
Sorry, Master. Don't worry, this
guy's gonna kill himself any
minute now!

ZAM WESSEL turns into oncoming traffic, deliberately trying to throw the JEDI off. Oncoming speeders swerve, trying to avoid ZAM and the JEDI. ZAM does a quick, tight loop-over and ends up behind the JEDI. She is now in a much better position to fire at them with her laser pistol. To avoid being hit by the laser bolts, ANAKIN slams on the brakes and moves alongside ZAM. She now fires point-blank at OBI-WAN.

OBI-WAN
What are you doing? He's gonna
blast me!

ANAKIN
Right - this isn't working.

ANAKIN slides underneath Zam's speeder. They race along in traffic, one speeder right on top of the other. The BOUNTY HUNTER skims over the rooftops, causing ANAKIN to drop behind. ANAKIN goes through his gears, zooming around traffic. They race at high speed across a wide, flat surface of the city planet. A large spacecraft almost collides with them as it attempts to land. They round a corner and clip a flag, which gets caught on one of the front air scoops.

OBI-WAN
That was too close!

ANAKIN
Clear that!

OBI-WAN
What??

ANAKIN
Clear the flag! We're losing
power! Hurry!

OBI-WAN leans out of the speeder, then crawls out onto the front engine, pulling the flag free of the scoop. The speeder lurches forward with a surge of power.

OBI-WAN
Whooooaaa! Don't do that! I
don't  like it when you do that!

ANAKIN
So sorry, Master.

They chase the BOUNTY HUNTER through a power refinery.

OBI-WAN
It's dangerous near those power
couplings! Slow down! Don't go
through there!

Huge electrical bolts shoot between the buildings as the speeders pass.

OBI-WAN
(continuing)
Yiiii, what are you doing?

ANAKIN
Sorry, Master!

OBI-WAN
(sarcastically)
Oh, that was good...

ANAKIN
That was crazy!!!

ZAM slides around a corner sideways, blocking an alley, firing point-blank as ANAKIN approaches.

ANAKIN
(continuing)
Ahh, damn.

OBI-WAN
Stop!!

ANAKIN
No, we can make it.

ANAKIN barely misses the BOUNTY HUNTER'S speeder as he dives under it, and through a small gap in the building hitting several pipes and going wildly out of control. ANAKIN struggles to regain control of the speeder, narrowly missing a crane, barely clipping a pair of giant struts. A giant gasball shoots up, causing ANAKIN to spin and bump a building, stalling the speeder.

OBI-WAN
I'm crazy... I'm crazy... I'm
crazy.

ANAKIN
But it worked... we made it.

OBI-WAN
(angrily)
It didn't work... we've stalled!
And you almost got us killed!

ANAKIN
I think we're still alive.

ANAKIN works to get the speeder started. It quickly races to life.

OBI-WAN
(very angrily)
It was stupid!

ANAKIN
(sheepishly)
I could have made it...

OBI-WAN
(furious)
But you didn't!!! And now we've
lost him.

Suddenly, there is an ambush. Laser bolts fire everywhere. EXPLOSIONS surround them. They look up to see ZAM WESSEL take off.

ANAKIN
No we didn‚Äôt...

Out of a cloud of smoke and ball of flames the JEDI tear after ZAM. They are smoking. OBI-WAN slaps out the small fire on the dashboard. ZAM goes up and down, through cross-traffic. There is a near miss as a speeder almost hits them. ZAM turns down and left between two buildings. ANAKIN pulls up and to the right

OBI-WAN
Where are you going?! He went
down there, the other way.

ANAKIN
This is a shortcut... I think.

OBI-WAN
What do you mean, ‚ÄòYou think?‚Äô
What kind of shortcut?! He went
completely the other way! You‚Äôve
lost him!

ANAKIN
Master, if we keep this chase
going, that creep‚Äôs gonna end up
deep fried. Personally, I‚Äôd very
much like to find out who in the
hell he is and who he‚Äôs working
for...

OBI-WAN
(sarcastic)
Oh, so that‚Äôs why we‚Äôre going in
the wrong direction.

ANAKIN turns up a side street, zooming up several small passageways, then stops, hovering about fifty stories up.

OBI-WAN
(continuing)
Well, you lost him.

ANAKIN
I‚Äôm deeply sorry, Master.

ANAKIN looks around front and back. He spots something. He seems to 
start counting to himself as he watches something below approach.

ANAKIN
(continuing)
Excuse me for a moment.

ANAKIN jumps out of the speeder. OBI-WAN looks down and sees Zam‚Äôs speeder about five stories below them cruising past. ANAKIN miraculously lands on top of the Bounty Hunter‚Äôs speeder. The speeder wobbles under the impact. ZAM looks up and realises what has happened.

ZAM takes off, and ANAKIN slides to the back strut and almost slips off, but manages to hang on. ANAKIN works his way back to the speeder‚Äôs cockpit, just as ZAM stops suddenly, and ANAKIN flies forward to the left front fork. ZAM shoots at him with a laser pistol. There is a BLAST near ANAKIN'S hand, which breaks off a piece of the speeder. ANAKIN slides to the right fork of the speeder, where ZAM can‚Äôt reach him. He scrambles to the top, holding onto an air scoop.

OBI-WAN has jumped into the driver‚Äôs seat of his speeder and is deftly gaining on the rogue speeder. The two speeders dive through oncoming traffic and then through cross traffic. Finally, ANAKIN is able to get hold of his lightsaber and starts to cut his way through the roof of the speeder. ZAM takes out her laser pistol and starts firing at the helpless JEDI, knocking the sword out of his hand. OBI-WAN races under the speeder and catches the Jedi weapon in the passenger‚Äôs seat.

ANAKIN sticks his hand into the cockpit and, using the Force, pulls the gun out of ZAM‚ÄôS hand. She grabs the Jedi‚Äôs hand, and they struggle for the weapon. It goes off, blowing a hole in the floor of the speeder. The speeder careens wildly out of control. ZAM struggles to pull the speeder out of it‚Äôs nose dive. OBI-WAN gets slowed down by traffic and loses sight of the Bounty Hunter‚Äôs speeder.

Just as the dragster is about to nose dive into the ground, ZAM pulls it out, and it slides hard on the pavement in a shower of sparks. ANAKIN goes flying into the street.

EXT. ENTERTAINMENT STREET - NIGHT
ZAM exits the crashed speeder and runs. ANAKIN picks himself up off the pavement and runs down the very crowded street.

It's the seedy underbelly of the city. Broken sidewalks, garish lights reflected on the filthy puddles. It's pretty crowded with various ALIEN LOW-LIFES, PANHANDLING DROIDS, and the occasional group of UPPERCLASS SLUMMERS.

ANAKIN barges into several of them as he chases after the fleeing ZAM. He loses the Bounty Hunter in the crowd, them sees him again. The young Jedi is having a very difficult time getting through the crowd.

Ahead, ZAM turns in through a door and disappears.

A nightclub sighs is flashing over the door. ANAKIN is just about to follow ZAM when there is a sudden swirl of litter from downthrusters. PEOPLE start moving out of the way, and the open speeder lands in the street beside him. OBI-WAN gets out and walks over, holding out ANAKIN'S lightsaber.

OBI-WAN
Anakin!

ANAKIN
She went into that club, Master.

OBI-WAN
Patience.

OBI-WAN hands ANAKIN the lightsaber.

OBI-WAN
(continuing)
Here. Next time try not to lose it.

ANAKIN
Sorry, Master.

ANAKIN reaches for the lightsaber, but OBI-WAN holds it back.

OBI-WAN
A Jedi's saber is his most
precious possession.

ANAKIN
Yes, Master.

He reaches for the lightsaber, OBI-WAN pulls it back.

OBI-WAN
He must keep it with him at all
times.

ANAKIN
I know, Master.

OBI-WAN
This weapon is your life!

ANAKIN
I've heard this lesson before...

OBI-WAN finally holds out the lightsaber and ANAKIN grabs it.

OBI-WAN
But, you haven't learned anything,
Anakin.

ANAKIN
I try, Master.

INT. NIGHTCLUB - NIGHT
OBI-WAN and ANAKIN enter the nightclub bar, and everyone stares at them

OBI-WAN
Why do I think you are going to be
the death of me?!

ANAKIN
Don't say that Master... You're
the closest thing I have to a
father... I love you. I don't want
to cause you pain.

OBI-WAN
Then why don't you listen to me?!

ANAKIN
I will. I'll do better, I promise.

OBI-WAN
Do you see him him?

ANAKIN
I think he's a she...

OBI-WAN
Then be extra careful...
(nods to a room)
Check it out.

OBI-WAN goes away.

ANAKIN
Where are you going, Master?

OBI-WAN
To get a drink.

OBI-WAN heads for the bar. ANAKIN blinks in surprise, then moves into the room, where ALIEN FACES look back at him with hostility, suspicion, and invitation as he moves among the tables. OBI-WAN arrives at the bar. He signals the BARMAN.

CLOSE - Somewhere in the room a HAND moves to a pistol in its holster and unsnaps the safety catch. At the bar, a glass is placed in from of OBI-WAN. A drink is poured. He lifts the glass.

ELAN SLEAZEBAGGANO
Wanna buy some death sticks?

OBI-WAN looks at him. He moves his fingers slightly.

OBI-WAN
You don't want to sell me death-
sticks.

ELAN
I don't want to sell you death-
sticks.

OBI-WAN moves his fingers.

OBI-WAN
You want to go home and rethink 
your life.

ELAN
I want to go home and rethink my
life.

He leaves. OBI-WAN lifts the drink and tosses it back.

CLOSE. The gun is drawn from its holster and held down out of sight. The BOUNTY HUNTER starts to move toward the bar.

ANAKIN checks out ALIEN FACES. OBI-WAN signals for another drink. The gun moves toward his unsuspecting back.

The drink is poured. OBI-WAN reaches for it. The gun is raised to aim directly at his back, and suddenly OBI-WAN turns fast. His lightsaber flashes. There is a shrill SCREAM and ZAM'S ARM hits the floor. The gun drops from its twitching fingers. Blood spreads.

The room is silent. ALIENS rise menacingly from their seats, and ANAKIN is suddenly at OBI-WAN's side, his lightsaber glowing.

ANAKIN
Easy... Official business. Go
back to your drinks.

Slowly, the ALIENS sit. Conversation resumes. Onstage, THE PERFORMERS pick up their routine. OBI-WAN and ANAKIN lift ZAM and carry her out.

EXT. ALLEY OUTSIDE NIGHTCLUB - NIGHT
OBI-WAN and ANAKIN carry ZAM into the alley and lower her to the ground. OBI-WAN attends to her wounded shoulder. She stares up hatefully at ANAKIN. She winces in pain, then nods.

OBI-WAN
Do you know who it was you were
trying to kill?

ZAM WESSEL
The Senator from Naboo.

OBI-WAN
Who hired you?

ZAM glares at OBI-WAN.

ZAM WESSEL
It was just a job.

ANAKIN
Tell us!

ZAM WESSEL
That Senator's gonna die soon
anyway, and the next one won't
make the same mistake I did...

OBI-WAN
This wound's going to need
treatment.

ANAKIN
Who hired you? Tell us... tell us
now!

ZAM glares hatefully.

ZAM
It was a Bounty Hunter called...

There is a sudden FTZZZ sound. ZAM twitches. She blinks in surprise and dies.

There is a WEOOSH from above. OBI-WAN and ANAKIN look up yo see an ARMOURED ROCKET-MAN taking off from a roof high above. OBI-WAN looks down at ZAM. He touches her neck and pulls out a small, wicked-looking dart.

OBI-WAN
Toxic Dart...

INT. SENATE BUILDING, AMIDALA'S APARTMENT - DAY
ANAKIN and JAR JAR stand near the door of the anteroom to PADME'S 
bedroom. PADME and DORME move about packing luggage.

PADM√â
Representative Binks. I know I can
count on you.

JAR JAR
Yousa betchen mesa bottums.

PADM√â
What?!

JAR JAR
(coughs, recovers)
Oh, pardone-ay, Senator. I mean,
I am honoured to accept this heavy
burden. I take on this
responsibility with deep humility
tinged with an overwhelming pride.
(pompously)
It is not every day that I am
called upon to...

PADME kisses him on the cheek and gives him a hug. JAR JAR turns red.

PADM√â
You're a good friend, Jar Jar. I
don't wish to hold you up. I'm
sure you have a great deal to do.

JAR JAR
Of course, M'lady.

JAR JAR bows and goes out. As he passes ANAKIN, he flashes a dazzling smile... PADME is in a very bad mood.

PADM√â
I do not like this idea of hiding.

ANAKIN
Don't worry. Now that the Council
has ordered an investigation, it
won't take Master Obi-Wan long to
find that bounty hunter.

PADM√â
(frustrated)
I haven't worked for a year to
defeat the "Military Creation Act"
not to be here when its fate is
decided.

ANAKIN
Sometimes we have to let go of our
pride and do what is requested of
us.

PADM√â
Pride?!? Annie, you're young, and
you don't have a very firm grip on
politics. I suggest you reserve
your opinions for some other time.

ANAKIN
Sorry, M'lady. I was only trying
to...

PADM√â
Annie! No!

ANAKIN
Please don't call me that.

PADM√â
What?

ANAKIN
Annie...

PADM√â
I've always called you that... it
is your name, isn't it?

ANAKIN
It's Anakin. When you say Annie
it's like I'm still a little
boy... and I'm not.

PADM√â
I'm sorry, Anakin. It's impossible
to deny you've...
(looks him over)
...that you've grown up.

PADME smiles at ANAKIN. He becomes a little shy.

ANAKIN
Master Obi-Wan manages not to see
it...

PADM√â
Mentors have a way of seeing more
of our faults than we would like.
It's the only way we grow.

ANAKIN
Don't get me wrong... Obi-Wan is
a great mentor. As wise as Master
Yoda and as powerful as Master
Windu. I am truly thankful to be
his apprentice. Only... although
I'm a Padawan learner, in some
ways... a lot of ways... I'm ahead
of him. I'm ready for the trials.
I know I am! He knows it too. He
believes I'm too unpredictable...
Other Jedi my age have gone
through the trials and made it...
I know I started my training
late... but he won't let me move
on.

PADM√â
That must be frustrating.

ANAKIN
It's worse... he's overly
critical. He never listens! He
just doesn't understand! It's not
fair!

PADME cannot surpress a laugh. She shakes her head.

PADM√â
I'm sorry... You sounded exactly
like that little boy I once knew,
when he didn't get his way.

ANAKIN
I'm not whining! I'm not.

PADME just smiles at him. DORME laughs in the background.

PADM√â
I didn't say it to hurt you.

ANAKIN
I know...

There is a brief silence. PADME comes over to ANAKIN.

PADME
Anakin...

They look into each other's eyes for the first time.

PADM√â
(continuing)
Don't try to grow up too fast.

ANAKIN
I am grown up. You said it
yourself.

ANAKIN looks deep into PADME'S eyes.

PADM√â
Please don't look at me like that.

ANAKIN
Why not?

PADM√â
Because I can see what you're
thinking.

ANAKIN
(laughing)
Ahh... so, you have Jedi powers
too?

DORME is watching with concern.

PADM√â
It makes me feel uncomfortable.

ANAKIN
Sorry, M'lady.

ANAKIN backs away as PADME turns and goes back to her packing.

EXT. CORUSCANT, SPACEPORT FREIGHTER DOCKS, TRANSPORT BUS - DAY 
A small bus speeds toward the massive freighter docks of Coruscant's Industrial area. The spaceport is bustling with activity. Transports of various sizes moves supplies and passengers as giant floating cranes lift cargo out of starships. The bus stops before a huge intergalactic freighter starship. It parks in the shadows of an overhang.

INT. CORUSCANT, SPACEPORT FREIGHTER DOCKS, TRANSPORT BUS - DAY
ANAKIN and PADME, dressed in Outland peasant outfits, get up and head for the door where CAPTAIN TYPHO, DORME and OBI-WAN are waiting to hand them their luggage. DORME is dressed to look like Senator Amidala.

CAPTAIN TYPHO
Be safe, m'lady.

PADM√â
Thank you, Captain. Take good
care of Dorme... the threat's on
you two now.

DORME
He'll be safe with me.

They laugh, and PADME embraces her faithful handmaiden. DORME start to weep.

PADM√â
You'll be fine.

DORME
It's not me, M'Lady. I worry
about you. What if they realise
I'm not you?

PADM√â
(looks to Anakin)
Then my Jedi protector will have
to prove how grown up he is.

DORME and PADME smile. ANAKIN frowns as OBI-WAN pulls him aside.

OBI-WAN
Anakin, you stay put on Naboo.
Do not attract any attention. Do
absolutely nothing without
checking in with me or the Council.

ANAKIN
Yes, Master.

OBI-WAN
(to Padme)
I will get to the bottom of this
plot quickly, M'Lady. You'll be
back here in no time.

PADM√â
I will be most grateful for your
speed, Master Jedi.

ANAKIN
Time to go.

PADM√â
I know. 

PADME gives DORME a last hug. ANAKIN picks up the luggage, and the TWO PEASANTS exit the speeder bus, where ARTOO is waiting for them.

OBI-WAN
May the Force be with you.

ANAKIN
May the Force be with you, Master.

They head off toward the giant Starfreighter.

PADM√â
Suddenly, I'm afraid...

ANAKIN
I'm kinda scared too. This is my
first assignment on my own.

PADM√â
There's nothing to worry about...
we have Artoo with us.

The two laugh.

OBI-WAN and CAPTAIN TYPHO watch ANAKIN and PADME disappear into the 
vastness of the spaceport with ARTOO trundling along behind them.

OBI-WAN
I hope he doesn't try anything
foolish.

CAPTAIN TYPHO
I'd be more concerned about her
doing something, than him.

EXT. FREIGHTER DOCKS - CORUSCANT - DAY
The freighter slowly takes off from the huge docks area of Coruscant. It soon moves into the crowded skies.

INT. JEDI TEMPLE, MAIN HALLWAY - LATE DAY
From high above, light streams down from the lofty ceilings. OBI-WAN crosses the floor of the great hallway, heaading for the Analysis Rooms.

INT. JEDI TEMPLE, ANALYSIS CUBICLES - LATE DAY
OBI-WAN walks past several glass cubicles where work is going on. He comes to an empty one and sits down in front of a console. A PK-4 ANALYSIS DROID comes to life. A tray slides out of the console.

PK-4
Place the subject for analysis on
the sensot tray, please.

OBI-WAN puts the dart onto the traym which retracts into the console. The DROID activates the system, and a screen lights up in from of OBI-WAN.

OBI-WAN
It's a toxic dart. I need to know
where it came from and who made it.

PK-4
One moment, please.

Diagrams and .... appear on the screem, scrolling past at great speed. OBI-WAN watches as the screen goes blank. They tray slides out.

PK-4
(continuing)
As you can see on your screen,
subject weapon does not exist in
any known culture. Markings
cannot be identified. Probablt
self-made by a warrior not
associated with any known society.

OBI-WAN
Excuse me? Could you try again
please?

PK-4
Master Jedi, our records are very
thorough. they cover eight
percent of the galaxy. If I can't
tell you where it came from,
nobody can.

OBI-WAN picks up the dart and looks at it, then looks to the DROID.

OBI-WAN
Thanks for your assistance! You
may not be able to figure this
out, but I think I know someone
who might.

EXT. SPACE, STARSHIP FREIGHTER
The massive, slow-moving Freighter suddenly zooms away into lightspeed.

INT. STARFREIGHTER, STORAGE HOLD - DAY
The great, gloomy hold is crowded with EMIGRANTS and their belongings. To one side ARTOO is coming to the head of a food line, where SERVERS are ladling out bowls of mush. ARTOO holds two bowls.

SERVER
Keep moving! Keep moving!

ARTOO slips tube into a tub of mush and sucks up a large quantity. With one of his little claw-arms, he grabs several chunks of something that looks like brown bread. A SERVER sees him.

FOOD SERVER
(continuing)
Hey! No Droids!

ARTOO takes one last big suck and heads away from the food line. The SERVER shouts after him angrily. The little droid moves past groups of eating or sleeping EMIGRANTS and comes to where ANAKIN is sound asleep. The young Jedi seems to be having a nightmare. He is very restless.

ANAKIN
No, no, Mom, no...

He is sweating. PADME leans over to wipe some of the sweat from his forehead. He wakes up with a start, then realises where he is. PADME simply looks at him. He stares back, somewhat confused. ARTOO fills up two bowls with mush.

ANAKIN
(continuing)
What?

PADM√â
You seemed to be having a
nightmare.

ANAKIN looks at PADME a little more closely, trying to see if he has revealed any of his secrets. She hands him a bowl of mush and bread.

PADM√â
(continuing)
Are you hungry?

ANAKIN
Thank you.

PADM√â
We went into lightspeed a while
ago.

ANAKIN looks into PADME'S eyes.

ANAKIN
I look forward to seeing Naboo
again. I've thought about it every
day since I left. It's by far the
most beautiful place I've ever
seen...

PADME is a little unnerved by his intense stare. 

PADM√â
You were just a little boy then.
It may not be as you remember it;
time changes your perception.

ANAKIN
I think time has given me much
more mature feelings to enhance my
perception.

PADM√â
It must be difficult having sworn
your life to the Jedi... not being
able to visit the places you
like... or do the things you
like...

ANAKIN
Or be with the people I love.

PADM√â
Are you allowed to love? I
thought that was forbidden for a
Jedi.

ANAKIN
Attachment is forbidden.
Possession is forbidden.
Compassion, which I would define
as unconditional love, is central
to a Jedi's life, so you might say
we're encouraged to love.

PADM√â
You have changed so much

ANAKIN
You haven't changed a bit. You're
exactly the way I remember you in
my dreams. I doubt if Naboo has
changed much either.

PADM√â
It hasn't...

ANAKIN
I can't wait to breathe the sweet
breeze that comes off the rolling
hills. Whenever I try to
visualise the Force, those hills
are what I see.

ANAKIN looks at PADME when he says this.

ANAKIN
(continuing)
I love Naboo.

There is an awkward moment.

PADM√â
(changing the subject)
Were you dreaming about you
mother earlier, weren't you?

ANAKIN
Yes... I left Tatooine so long
ago, my memory of her is fading.
I don't want to lose it. Recently
I've been seeing her in my
dreams... vivid dreams... scary
dreams. I worry about her.

PADME gives ANAKIN a sympathetic look.

EXT. CORUSCANT, DOWNTOWN, BACK STREET - MORNING
OBI-WAN walks down the street. It is a pretty tough part of town. Old buildings, warehouses, beat up speeders and transporter rigs occasional "shiny freighters" hissing through.

OBI-WAN comes to a kind of alien diner. On the steamed-up windowa it says "DEX'S DINER" in alien lettering. He goes inside.

INT. CORUSCANT, DEX'S DINER - MORNING
A young waitress, HERMIONE BAGWA, is wiping off a booth tabletop. There is a counter with stools and a line of booths along the wall by the window. A number of CUSTOMERS are eating - TOUGH-LOOKING WORKERS, FREIGHTER DRIVERS etc. HERMIONE looks up as OBI-WAN comes in.

HERMIONE
Can I help ya?

OBI-WAN
I'm looking for Dexter.

HERMIONE'S eyes narrow.

HERMIONE BAGWA
Waddya want him for?

OBI-WAN
He's not in trouble. It's
personal.

HERMIONE stares at OBI-WAN. There is a brief pause. Then she goes to the open serving hatch behind the counter.

HERMIONE BAGWA
Someone to see ya, honey
(lowering her voice)
A Jedi, by the looks of him.

Steam billows out from the kitchen hatch behind the counter as a huge head pokes through.

DEXTER JETTSTER
Obi-Wan!

OBI-WAN
Hey, Dex.

DEXTER JETTSTER
Take a seat! Be right with ya!

OBI-WAN sits in a booth.

HERMIONE BAGWA
You want a cup of ardees?

OBI-WAN
Thank you.

HERMIONE moves off as the door to the counter opens and DEXTER JETTSTER appears. He is big - bald and sweaty, old and alien. Not someone to tangle with. He arrives, beaming hugely.

DEXTER JETTSTER
Hey, ol' buddy!

OBI-WAN
Hey, Dex.

DEXTER eases himself into the seat opposite OBI-WAN. He can just make it. HERMIONE sets two mugs of steaming ardees in from of them.

DEXTER JETTSTER
So, my friend. What can I do for
ya?

OBI-WAN
You can tell me what this is.

OBI-WAN places the dart on the table between them. DEX'S eyes widen. He puts down his mug.

DEXTER JETTSTER
Well, whattaya know...

DEXTER picks up the dart delicately between his puffy fingers and peers at it.

DEXTER JETTSTER
(continuing)
I ain't seen one of these since I
was prospecting on Subterrel
beyond the Outer Rim!

OBI-WAN
Do you know where it came from?

DEXTER grins. He puts the dart down between them.

DEXTER JETTSTER
This baby belongs to them cloners.
What you got here is a Kamino
Kyberdart.

OBI-WAN
Kamino Kyberdart... I wonder why
it didn't show up in any analysis
archive.

DEXTER JETTSTER
It's these funny little cuts on
the side give it away...
Those analysis droids you've got
over there only focus on symbols,
you know. I should think you Jedi
would have more respect for the
difference between knowledge and
wisdom.

OBI-WAN
Well, Dex, if droids could think, we
wouldn't be here, would we?
(laughing)
Kamino... doesn't sound familiar.
Is it part of the Republic?

DEXTER JETTSTER
No, it's beyond the Outer Rim.
I'd say about twelve parsecs
outside the Rishi Maze, toward the
south. It should be easy to find,
even for those droids in your
archive to find. Those Kaminoans
keep to themselves. They're
cloners. Damned good ones, too.

OBI-WAN then picks up the dart, holding it midway between them.

OBI-WAN
Cloners? Are they friendly?

DEXTER JETTSTER
It depends.

OBI-WAN
On what, Dex?

Dexter grins. 

DEXTER JETTSTER
On how good your manners are...
and how big your pocketbook is...

EXT. NABOO SPACEPORT - DAY
The Starfreighter lands in the giant port city of Theed.

PADME, ANAKIN and ARTOO are among the EMIGRANTS streaming from the Starfreighter and into the vast docking area. They exit onto the main plaza.

EXT. NABOO PALACE, GRAND COURTYARD (NABOO) - AFTERNOON
The speeder bus pulls up and stops. PADME, ANAKIN, and ARTOO get out. The great courtyard stretches out before them, and they see the rose-colored dome of the palace on the far side. ARTOO WHISTLES. They pick up their gear and start to cross the courtyard. ARTOO trundles behind them.

ANAKIN
If I grew up here, I don't think
I'd ever leave.

PADM√â
(laughing)
I doubt that.

ANAKIN
No, really. When I started my
training, I was very homesick and
very lonely. This city and my Mom
were the only pleasant things I
had to think about... The problem
was, the more I thought about my
Mom, the worse I felt. But I
would feel better if I thought
about the palace - the way it
shimmers in the sunlight - the way
the air always smells of flowers...

PADM√â
...and the soft sound of the
distant waterfalls. The first
time I saw the Capital, I was very
young... I'd never seen a
waterfall before. I though they
were so beautiful... I never
dreamed one day I'd live in the
palace.

ANAKIN
Well, tell me, did you dream of
power and politics when you were
a little girl?

PADM√â
(laughing)
No! That was the last thing I
thought of. My dream was to help
in the "Refugee Relief Movement."
I never thought of running for
elected office. But the more
history I studied, the more I
realised how much good politicians
could do. So when I was eight, I
joined the "Apprentice
Legislators", then later on became
a Senatorial advisor, with such a
passion that, before I knew it, I
was elected Queen. Partly because
I scored so high on my education
certificate, but for the most part
it was my conviction that reform
was possible. I wasn't the
youngest Queen ever elected, but
now that I think back on it, I'm
not sure I was old enough. I'm not
sure I was ready.

ANAKIN
The people you served thought you
did a good job. I heard they
tried to amend the Constitution so
you could stay in office.

PADM√â
Popular rule is not democracy,
Annie. It gives the people what
they want, not what they need.
And, truthfully, I was relieved
when my two terms were up. So
were my parents. They worried
About me during the blockade and
couldn't wait for it all to be
over. Actually, I was hoping to
have a family by now... My
sisters have the most amazing,
wonderful kids... but when the
Queen asked me to serve as
Senator, I couldn't refuse her.

ANAKIN
I agree! I think the Republic
needs you... I'm glad you chose
to serve. I feel things are going
to happen in our generation that
will change the galaxy in profound
ways.

PADM√â
I think so too.

ANAKIN and PADME walk toward the palace. ARTOO continues to follow.

INT. NABOO PALACE, THRONE ROOM - AFTERNOON
QUEN JAMILLIA is seated on the throne, flanked by SIO BIBBLE and a COUPLE OF ADVISORS. FOUR HANDMAIDENS stand close by, and GUARDS are at the doors.

QUEEN JAMILLIA
We've been worried about you.
(takes her hand)
I'm so glad you're safe, Padm√©.

PADM√â
Thank you, Your Highness. I only
Wish I could have served you
better by staying on Coruscant for
the vote.

SIO BIBBLE
Given the circumstances, Senator,
you know it was the only decision
Her Highness could have made.

QUEEN JAMILLIA
How many systems have joined Count
Dooku and the separatists?

PADM√â
About two hundred. And more are
leaving the Republic every day.
If the Senate votes to create an
army, I'm sure it's going to push
us into a civil war.

SIO BIBBLE
It's unthinkable! There hasn't
been a full-scale war since the
formation of the Republic!

QUEEN JAMILLIA
Do you see any way, through
negotiations, to bring the
separatists back into the Republic?

PADM√â
Not if they feel threatened. The
separatists don't have an army,
but if they are provoked, they
will move to defend themselves.
I'm sure of that. And with no time
or money to build an army, my
guess is they will turn to the
Commerce Guilds or the Trade
Federation for help.

QUEEN JAMILLIA
The armies of commerce! Why has
Nothing been done in the Senate
to restrain them?

PADM√â
I'm afraid that, despite the
Chancellor's best efforts, there
are still many bureaucrats,
judges, and even Senators on the
payrolls of the Guilds.

SIO BIBBLE
It's outrageous! After all of
those hearings, and the four trials in
the Supreme Court, Nute Gunray is
still the Viceroy of the Trade
Federation. Do those money
mongers control everything?

QUEEN JAMILLIA
Remember, Counsellor, the courts
were able to reduce the
Federation's armies. That's a
move in the right
direction.

PADM√â
There are rumours, Your Highness,
that the Federation Army was not
reduced as they were ordered.

ANAKIN
The Jedi have not been allowed to
investigate. It would be to be too
dangerous for the economy, we were
told.

QUEEN JAMILLIA
We must keep our faith in the
Republic. The day we stop
believing democracy can work is
the day we lose it.

PADM√â
Let's pray that day never comes.

QUEEN JAMILLIA
In the meantime, we must consider
your own safety.

SIO BIBBLE signals. All the other ADVISORS and ATTENDANTS bow and leave the room.

SIO BIBBLE
(to Anakin)
What is your suggestion, Master
Jedi?

PADM√â
Anakin's not a Jedi yet, Counsellor.
He's still a Padawan learner. I
was thinking...

ANAKIN
(nettled)
Hey, hold on a minute!

PADM√â
Excuse me! I was thinking I would
stay in the Lake Country. There
are some places up there that are
very isolated.

ANAKIN
Excuse me?! I am in charge of
security here, M'Lady.

SIO BIBBLE and QUEEN JAMILLIA exchange a look. Something is going on here.

PADM√â
Annie, my life is at risk, and
this is my home. I know it very
well... that is why we're here.
I think it would be wise for you
to take advantage of my knowledge
in this instance.

ANAKIN
(takes a deep breath)
Sorry, M'Lady.

SIO BIBBLE
(to Anakin, amused)
She is right. The Lake Country is
the most remote part of Naboo.
Not many people and a clear view
of the surrounding terrain.

QUEEN JAMILLIA
Perfect. It's settled then.

ANAKIN glares at PADME. Then QUEEN JAMILLIA gets up, and they all start to leave.

QUEEN JAMILLIA
(continued)
Padm√©, I had an audience with your
father yesterday. I told him what
was happening. He hopes you will
visit your mother before you
leave... your family's very
worried about you.

PADME looks worred. They ALL exit down the main staircase.

EXT. JEDI TEMPLE - DAY
The main entrance at the base of the huge temple is bustling with activity. All sorts of JEDI are coming and going.

INT. JEDI TEMPLE, ARCHIVES LIBRARY - DAY
A bronze bust of Count Dooku, stands among a line of other busts of Jedi in the Archive Room. OBI-WAN stands in front it, studying the striking features of the chiselled face.

On the walls, lighted computer panels seem to stretch into infinity. Farther along the room in the background, FIVE JEDI are seated at tables, studying archival material.

After OBI-WAN studies the bust for a few moments before MADAME JOCASTA NU, the Jedi Archivist is standing next to him. She is an elderly, frail-looking human Jedi. Tough as old boots and smart as a whip.

JOCASTA NU
Did you call for assistance?

OBI-WAN
(distracted in thought)
Yes... yes, I did...

JOCASTA NU
He has a powerful face, doesn't
he? He was one of the most
brilliant Jedi I have had the
privilege of knowing.

OBI-WAN
I never understood why he quit.
Only twenty Jedi have ever left
the Order.

JOCASTA NU
(sighs)
The Lost Twenty... and Count Dooku
was the most recent and the most
painful. No one likes to talk
about it. His leaving was a great
loss to the Order.

OBI-WAN
What happened?

JOCASTA NU
Well, one might say, he was always
a bit out of step with the
decisions of the Council... much
like your old Master, Qui-Gon Jinn.

OBI-WAN
(surprised)
Really?

JOCASTA NU
Oh, yes. They were alike in many
ways. Very individual thinkers...
idealists...

JOCASTA NU stares at the bust

JOCASTA NU
(continuing
He was always striving to become
a more powerful Jedi. He wanted
to be the best. With a lightsaber,
in the old style of fencing, he
had no match. His knowledge of
the Force was... unique. In the
end, I think he left because he
lost faith in the Republic. He
believed that politics were
corrupt, and he felt the Jedi
betrayed themselves by serving the
politicians. He always had very
high expectations of government.
He disappeared for nine or ten
years, then he just showed up
recently as the head of the
separatist movement.

OBI-WAN
Interesting... I'm still not sure
I understand.

JOCASTA NU
Well, I'm sure you didn't call me
over here for a history lesson.
Are you having a problem, Master
Kenobi?

OBI-WAN
Yes, I'm trying to find a planet
system called Kamino. It doesn't
seem to show upon any of the
archive charts.

JOCASTA NU
Kamino? It's not a system I'M
familiar with... Let me see...

JOCASTA NU leans over OBI-WAN'S shoulder, looking at the screen.

JOCASTA NU
(continuing)
Are you sure you have the right
co-ordinates?

OBI-WAN
(nodding)
According to my information, it
should be in this quadrant
somewhere... just south of the
Rishi Maze.

JOCASTA NU taps the keyboard and frowns.

JOCASTA NU
No co-ordinates? It sounds like the
kind of directions you'd get from
a street tout... some old miner or
Furbog trader.

OBI-WAN
All three actually.

JOCASTA NU
Are you sure it exists?

OBI-WAN
Absolutely.

JOCASTA NU
Let me do a gravitational scan.

OBI-WAN and JOCASTA NU studt the star map hologram.

JOCASTA NU
There are some inconsistencies
here. Maybe the planet you're
looking for was destroyed.

OBI-WAN
Wouldn't that be on record?

JOCASTA NU
It ought to be. Unless it was very
recent.
(shakes her head)
I hate to say it, but it looks
like the system you're searching
for doesn't exist.

OBI-WAN
That's impossible... perhaps the
archives are incomplete.

JOCASTA NU
The archives are comprehensive and
totally secure, my young Jedi.
One thing you may be absolutely
sure of - if an item does not
appear in our records, it does not
exist!

OBI-WAN stares at her, then looks back at the map.

EXT. THEED, RESIDENTIAL AREA, SIDE STREET - AFTERNOON
PEOPLE are passing through the little street, OLD MEN are sunning themslves, WOMEN are gossipping, KIDS are playing. ANAKIN, PADME and ARTOO turn onto a side street. ANAKIN is back in his Jedi robes. PADME wear a beautiful simple dress. She stops, beaming.

PADME
There's my house!

PADME starts forward; ANAKIN hangs back.

PADME
(continuing)
What? Don't say you're shy!

ANAKIN
(untruthfully)
No, but I...

Suddenly, there are shouts from two little girils, RYOO (age 6) and POOJA (age 4). They come running toward PADME.

RYOO & POOJA
Aunt Padme!! Aunt Padme!!

PADME
Ryoo!! Pooja!!

PADME scoops up RYOO and POOJA and hugs them.

PADME
(continuing)
I'm so happy to see you! This is
Anakin. Anakin, this is Ryoo, and
this is Pooja.

ANAKIN and the GIRLS say hello shyly. Then:

RYOO & POOJA
Artoo!!!

As they see the droid, they hug him. ARTOO WHISTLES and BEEPS. PADME laughs. ANAKIN and PADME go on toward the house. The GIRLS stay and play with ARTOO.

INT. PADME'S PARENTS' HOUSE, MAIN ROOM - AFTERNOON
SOLA, PADME'S beautiful older sister, comes in from the kitchen carrying a big bowl of food.

SOLA
(over her shoulder)
They're eating over at Jev
Narran's later, Mom. They just
had a snack. They'll be fine.

SOLA puts the bowl down on the table, where ANAKIN, PADME and RUWEE NABERRIE (Padme's father) are coming into the room.

PADME
Anakin, this is my sister, Sola.

SOLA
Hello, Anakin.

ANAKIN
Hello.

SOLA sits, as JOBAL NABERRIE (Padme's mother) comes in with a heaped bowl of steaming food.

JOBAL
You're just in time for dinner. I
hope you're hungry, Anakin.

ANAKIN
A little.

PADME
He's being polite, Mom. We're
starving.

RUWEE
(grinning)
You came to the right place at the
right time. Sit down, son.

EVERYONE sits and starts passing food.

JOBAL
(to Padme)
Honey, it's so good to see you
safe. We were so worried.

PADME gives JOBAL a dirty look. RUWEE smiles as he watches.

RUWEE
Dear...

JOBAL
I know, I know... but I had to say
it. Now it's done.

SOLA
Well, this is exciting! Do you
know, Anakin, you're the first
boyfriend my sister's ever brought
home?

PADME
(rolls her eyes)
Sola!! He isn't my boyfriend!
He's a Jedi assigned by the Senate
to protect me.

JOVAL
A bodyguard?! Oh, Padme! They
didn't tell us it was that serious!

PADME
It's not, Mom, I promise.
(glances at Jobal)
Anyway, Anakin's a friend. I've
known him for years. Remember
that little boy who was with the
Jedi during the blockade crisis?

They nod.

PADME
(continuing)
He grew up.

JOBAL
Honey, when are you going to
settle down? Haven't you had
enough of that life? I certainly
have!

PADME
Mom, I'm not in any danger.

RUWEE
(to Anakin)
Is she?

ANAKIN
...Yes... I'm afraid she is.

PADME
(quickly)
But not much.

EXT. PADME'S PARENTS' GARDEN - AFTERNOON
ANAKIN and RUWEE are walking.

RUWEE
Sometimes I wish I'd traveled
more... but I must say, I'm happy
here.

ANAKIN
Padme tells me you teach at the
university?

RUWEE
(nodding)
Yes, and before that, I was a
builder. I also worked for the
Refugee Relief Movement, when I
was very young.

INT. PADME'S PARENTS' HOUSE, MAIN ROOM - AFTERNOON
PADME, SOLA and JOBAL are clearing the table.

SOLA
Why haven't you told us about him?

PADM√â
What's there to talk about?  He's
just a boy.

SOLA
A boy? Have you seen the way he
looks at you?

PADM√â
Sola - stop it!

SOLA
It's obvious he has feelings for
you. Are you saying, little baby
sister, that you haven't noticed?

PADM√â
I'm not your baby sister, Sola.
Anakin and I are friends... our
relationship is strictly
professional.
(to Jobal)
Mom, would you tell her to stop it?

SOLA
(laughing)
Well, maybe you haven't noticed
the way he looks at you. I think
you're afraid to.

PADM√â
Cut it out.

JOBAL
Sola's just concerned... we all
are.

PADM√â
Oh, Mom, you're impossible. What
I'm doing is important.

JOBAL
You've done your service, Padm√©.
It's time you had a life of your
own. You're missing so much!

EXT. PADME'S PARENTS' GARDEN - AFTERNOON
ANAKIN and RUWEE are walking in the garden. RUWEE stops and faces ANAKIN directly.

RUWEE
Now tell me, son. How serious is
this thing? How much danger is my
daughter really in?

ANAKIN
There have been two attempts on
her life. Chances are there'll be
more. My Master is tracking down
the assassins. I'm sure he'll find
out who they are. This situation,
won't last long.

RUWEE
I don't want anything to happen to
her.

ANAKIN
I don't either.

INT. PADME'S PARENTS' HOUSE, PADME'S ROOM - AFTERNOON
PADME throws some things into a bag.

PADME
Don't worry, this won't take long.

ANAKIN
I just want to get there before
dark.

PADME goes on packing. ANAKIN looks around the room.

ANAKIN
(continuing)
You still live at home.

PADME
I move around so much, I've never
had a place of my own. Official
residences have no warmth. I feel
good here. I feel at home.

ANAKIN
I never had a real home. Home was
always where my Mom was.

ANAKIN picks up a framed hologram.

ANAKIN
(continuing)
Is this you?

The hologram shows Padme at age seven or eight surrounded by forty or fifty little green creatures. She is holding one in her arms. They are all smiling hugely.

PADME
That was when I went with the
Relief Group to Shadda-Bi-Boran.
Their sun was imploding, and the
planet was dying. I was helping
to relocate the children. See
that little one I'm holding? His
name was N'a-kee-tula, which means
sweethear. He was so full of 
life,. All those kids were. I did
everything I could to save him,
but he died... they all did. They
were never able to adapt... to
live off their native planet.

ANAKIN picks up another hologram. It shows PADME at age ten or eleven. She is wearing official robes and standing between two robed legislators. Her expression is severe.

PADME
(continuing)
My first day as an Apprentice
Legislator. Notice the difference?

PADME pulls a face. ANAKIN grins. She continues packing. ANAKIN sets the two holograms down side by side - the beaming little girl, and the the stern, unsmiling adolescent.

INT. JEDI TEMPLE, MAIN HALLWAY - DAY
OBI-WAN walks through the main hallway to the training area.

INT. JEDI TEMPLE, TRAINING VERANDA - DAY
OBI-WAN comes out onto the veranda and stops, watching TWENTY or so FOUR-YEAR-OLDS doing training exercises, supervised by YODA. They wear helmets over their eyes and try to strike little TRAINING DROIDS with their miniature lightsabers. The DROIDS dance in front of them.

YODA
Don't think... feel... be as one
with the Force. Help you, it will.
(he sees Obi-Wan)
Younglings - enough! A visitor we
have. Welcome him.

The CHILDREN take off their helmets and turn off their lightsabers.

YODA
(continuing)
Master Obi-Wan Kenobi, meet the
mighty Bear Clan.

CHILDREN
Welcome, Master Obi-Wan!

OBI-WAN
I am sorry to disturb you, Master.

YODA
What help to you, can I be?

OBI-WAN
I‚Äôm looking for a planet described
to me by an old friend. I trust
him. But the system doesn‚Äôt show
up on the archive maps.

YODA
An interesting puzzle. Gather
round the map reader, younglings.
Master Obi-Wan has lost a planet.
Find it, we will try...

The map reader is a small shaft with a hollow opening at the top. The CCHILDREN gather around it. OBI-WAN takes out a little glass ball and places it into the bowl. The window shades close darkening the room and the reader lights up, projecting the star map hologram into the room. The CHILDREN laugh. Some of them reach up to try and touch the nebulae and stars. OBI-WAN walks into the display.

OBI-WAN
This is where it ought to be...
but it isn‚Äôt. Gravity is pulling
all the stars in this area inward
to this spot. There should be a
star here... but there isn‚Äôt.

YODA
Most interesting. Gravity‚Äôs
silhouette remains, but the star
and all its planets have
disappeared. How can this be?

There is a brief pause. Then a CHILD puts its hand up. YODA nods.

JEDI CHILD JACK
Because someone erased it from the
archive memory.

CHILDREN
That‚Äôs right! Yes! That‚Äôs what
happened! Someone erased it!

JEDI CHILD MAY
If the planet blew up, the gravity
would go away.

OBI-WAN stares; YODA chuckles.

YODA
Truly wonderful, the mind of a
child is. Uncluttered. To the
centre of the pull of gravity go,
and find your planet you will.

OBI-WAN
But Master Yoda who could have
erased information from the
archives? That‚Äôs impossible,
isn‚Äôt it?

YODA
(frowning)
Much harder to answer, that
question is.

EXT. NABOO LAKE RETREAT, WATER SPEEDER, LANDING PLATFORM - LATE AFTERNOON
A water speeder driven by PADDY ACCU, the retreat caretaker, skims across the lake away from the island landing platform where a chrome Naboo Starship rests. ANAKIN and PADME are sitting in the speeder as it skims away to where a lodge rises on a beautiful island in the middle of the lake.

EXT. NABOO LAKE RETREAT, LODGE, GARDEN TERRACEM LATE AFTERNOON
ANAKIN and PADME walk up the stairs from where the water speeder is parked onto a terrace overlooking a lovely garden. Behind them, PADDY ACCU supervises two serving girls, NANDI and TECKLA, as they carry the bags into the Lodge.

ANAKIN and PADME stop at the balustrade. PADME looks out across the garden to the shimmering lake and the mountains rising beyond. ANAKIN looks at her silently.

PADM√â
When I was in Level Three, we used
to come here for school retreat.
See that island? We used to swim
there every day. I love the water.

ANAKIN
I do too. I guess it comes from
growing up on a desert planet.

PADME becomes aware that ANAKIN is looking at her.

PADM√â
...We used to lie on the sand and
let the sun dry us... and try to
guess the names of the birds
singing.

ANAKIN
I don‚Äôt like sand. It‚Äôs coarse
and rough and irritating, and it
gets everywhere. Not like here.
Here everything‚Äôs soft... and
smooth...

He touches her arm. PADME has become receptive to the way he looks at her but is nervous.

PADM√â
There was a very old man who lived
on the island. He used to make
glass out of sand - and vases and
necklaces out of the glass. They
were magical.

ANAKIN
(looks into her eyes)
Everything here is magical.

PADM√â
You could look into the glass and
see the water. The way it ripples
and moves. It looked so real...
but it wasn‚Äôt.

ANAKIN
Sometimes, when you believe
something to be real, it becomes
real. Real enough, anyway...

They look into each other's eyes. He touches her chin.

PADM√â
I used to think if you looked too
deeply into glass, you would
lose yourself.

ANAKIN
I think it's true...

ANAKIN kisses PADME. She doesn't resist. She comes to her senses and pulls away.

PADM√â
I shouldn't have done that.

ANAKIN
I'm sorry. When I'm around you,
my mind is no longer my own.

PADM√â
It's the situation... the stress...

He looks at her.

ANAKIN
...the view.

EXT. CORUSCANT, LANDING PLATFORM - LATE AFTERNOON
Obi-Wan's Starfighter is ready for takeoff. OBI-WAN and MACE WINDU stand beside it.

MACE WINDU
Be wary, this disturbance in the
Force is growing stronger.

OBI-WAN
I am concerned for my Padawan. He
is not ready to be on his own.

YODA
The Council is confident in this decision,
Obi-Wan.

MACE
He has exceptional skills. The
Council is confident in its
decision, Obi-Wan. If the
prophecy is true, he weill be the
one to bring balance to the Force.

OBI-WAN
But he still has much to learn.
And his abilities have made him...
well... arrogant. I realise now
what you and Master Yoda knew from
the beginning... the boy was too
old to start the training and...

OBI-WAN hesitates.

MACE WINDU
There's something else?

OBI-WAN
Master, he should not have been
given this assignment. I'm afraid
Anakin won't be able to protect
the Senator. 

MACE WINDU
Why?

OBI-WAN
He has a... an emotional
connection with her. It's been
there since he was boy. Now
he's confused... distracted.

MACE-WINDU
Obi-Wan, you must have faith that
he will take the right path.

OBI-WAN climbs into the cockpit of the Starfighter.

OBI-WAN
Has Master Yoda gained any insight
into whether or not this war will
come about?

MACE WINDU
Probing the Dark Side is a
dangerous process. He could be in
seclusion for days... May the
force be with you.

INT. JEDI TEMPLE, YODA'S QUARTERS - LATE AFTERNOON
YODA sits with his eyes closed, meditating. Silence.

EXT. NABOO LAKE RETREAT, LOUNGE, LATE AFTERNOON
The setting sun touches the mountain peaks. The lake glows in the rose-tinted light. Floatinf lamps glean softly like jewels at the lodge.

INT. NABOO LAKE RETREAT, DINING ROOM - LATE AFTERNOON
NANDI place dessert in front of PADME. TECKLA does the same for ANAKIN. The dessert is some kind of fruit. PADME picks up her fork and goes to spear a piece, but it moves! She frowns and tries again -the fruit moves. She lokk up at ANAKIN. His eyes are on his plate.

PADME
You did that?

ANAKIN looks up - wide-eyed innocence.

ANAKIN
What?

PADME scowls at him. PADME jabs at the fruit - ANAKIN subtly moves his hand and it lifts up from the plate and hovers in front of her.

PADME
That! Now stop it!

PADME laughs. ANAKIN laughs. She reaches out for the fruit - it loops.

PADME
(continuing)
Anakin!!

ANAKIN moves his fingers. The fruit flies into his hand.

ANAKIN
I'm not really supposed to do
that... for fun, I mean. If
Master Obi-Wan were here, he'd be
very grumpy.

ANAKIN is pleased. He cuts the fruint into several pieces and sends one back to PADME. She bites it out of the air and laughs.

INT. NABOO LAKE RETREAT, LODGE, FIREPLACE ALCOVE - TWILIGHT
A fire blazes in the open hearth. PADME is sitting in front of it, gazing at the flames.

She looks up as ANAKIN arrives. She makes room for him. Brief pause.

ANAKIN
May I tell you something?

PADME
I don't know.

ANAKIN
Then how can I tell you?

PADME
Maybe you should use your Jedi
intuition.

ANAKIN
It doesn't work around you. My
mind is always a muddle... I can
only think of you.

PADME
Anakin, don't...

ANAKIN
From the moment I met you, all
those years ago, a day hasn't gone
by when I haven't thought of you.
And now that I'm close to you again,
I'm in agony. The closer I get to
you, the worse it gets. The
thought of not being with you
mskes my stomach turn over - my
mouth goes dry. I feel dizzy. I
can't breathe. I'm haunted by the
kiss you should never have given
me. My heart is beating, hoping
that kiss will not become a scar.
You are in my very soul,
tormenting me. What can I do? I
will do anything you ask...

Silence. The logs flame in the hearth.

ANAKIN
(continuing)
If you are suffering as much as I
am, tell me.

PADME
...I can't. We can't. It's just
not possible.

ANAKIN
Anything's possible. Padme,
please listen...

PADME
You listen. We live in a real
world. Come back to it. You're
studying to become a Jedi Knight.
I'm a Senator. If you follow your
thoughts through to conclusion,
they will take us to a place we
cannot go... regardless of the way
we feel about each other.

ANAKIN
Then you do feel something!
There's an extraordinary
connection between us. You can't
deny that.

PADME
Annie, it doesn't make any
difference. Jedi aren't allowed
to marry. You swore an oath,
remember? You'd be expelled from
the Order. I will not let you
give up your responsibilities...
your future, for me.

ANAKIN
I was destined to be a Jedi. I
don't think I could be anything
else. But you are asking me to be
rational. That is something I
know I cannot do. I wish I could
wish my feelings away... but I
can't.

PADME
I am not going to give into this.
I'm not going to throw my life
away. I have more important things
to do than fall in love.

There is silence as they stare at the fire. ANAKIN is thinking.

ANAKIN
It wouldn't have to be that way...
we could keep it a secret.

PADME
Then we'd be living a lie - one we
couldn't keep even if we wanted
to. Mt sister saw it. So did my
mother. I couldn't do that.
Could you, Anakin? Could you live
like that?

Silence for a moment.

ANAKIN
...No, you're right. It would
destroy us.

EXT. SPACE
It's just like the star map hologram, plus the storm-shrouded planet of Kamino, which is exactly where it ought to be. Obi-Wan's Starship flies OVER CAMERA and heads down toward the planet.

EXT. TIPOCA CITY, KAMINO LANDING PLATFORM (RAINSTORM) - DAY
Heavy rans and hard-driving winds lash the platform as Obi-Wan's Starship approaches. The huge, ultra-modern city of Tipoca rests on great stilts that keep it above the pounding and ever-present waves that cover the surface of this watery world.

The Starfighter lands. OBI-WAN gets out and makes his way through the bowling wind toward a tower on the far side of the platform. A door slides open. A shaft of brilliant light pierces the swirling rain. OBI-WAN passes through it and goes inside.

INT. TIPOCA CITY, CORRIDOR ENTRANCE
A Brilliant white light. OBI-WAN pushes the soaking hood from his face.

TAUN WE
Welcome to Tipoca City, Master
Jedi.

OBI-WAN wipes the rain from his face and blinks in surprise at a tall, pasty-white alien named TAUN WE. He has large, almond shaped eyes.

TAUN WE
Everything is ready. The Prime
Minister expects you.

OBI-WAN
(warily)
I'm expected?

TAUN WE
Of course! He is anxious to see
you. After all these years, we
were beginning to think you
weren't coming. Now please, this
way!

OBI-WAN masks his surprise as they move away along the corridor.

Obi-Wan follows Taun We cautiously.

INT. TIPOCA CITY, PRIME MINISTER OFFICE - DAY
The door slides open. OBI-WAN and TAUN WE enter and cross to where LAMA SU rises, smiling, from behind his desk, which, like all the furniture on Kamino, seems made out of pure light.

TAUN WE
May I present Lama Su, Prime
Minister of Kamino... and this is
Master Jedi...

OBI-WAN
Obi-Wan Kenobi.

LAMA SU
Please...

LAMA SU indicates a chair. OBI-WAN sits. TAUN WE hovers. The room is bathed in brilliant white light. The whole place is ultra high-tech.

LAMA SU
I trust you are going to enjoy
your stay. We are most happy you
have arrived at the best part of
the season.

OBI-WAN
You make me feel most welcome.

LAMA SU
And now to business. You will be
delighted to hear we are on
schedule. Two hundred thousand
units are ready, with another
million well on the way.

OBI-WAN
(improvising)
That is... good news.

LAMA SU
Please tell your Master Sido-Dyas
that we have every confidence his
order will be met on time and in
full. He is well, I hope?

OBI-WAN
I'm sorry Master - ?

LAMA SU
Jedi Master Sifo-Dyas. He's still
a leading member of the Jedi
Council, is he not?

OBI-WAN
Oh, yes. Sido-Dyas.

LAMA SU
(rising)
You must be anxious to inspect the
units for yourself.

OBI-WAN
That's why I'm here.

EXT. NABOO, MOUNTAIN MEADOW - LATER AFTERNOON
PADME and ANAKIN are in the middle of an idyllic hilly meadow, its lush grasses sprinkled with flowers. At a distance, a herd of SHAAKS graze contentedly.

Beyond is the shimmering expanse of the lake. Several other lakes stretch to the horizon. The warm air is full of little floating puffballs. They sit on the grass, in a playful, coy mood, talking. PADME is picking flowers.

PADM√â
I don't know...

ANAKIN
Sure you do... you just don't want
to tell me.

PADM√â
Are you going to use one of your
Jedi mind tricks on me?

ANAKIN
They only work on the weak-minded.
You are anything but weak-minded.

PADM√â
All right... his name was Palo.
I was twelve. We were both in the
Legislative Youth Program. He was
a few years older then I... very
cute... dark curly hair... dreamy
eyes.

ANAKIN
All right, I get the picture...
whatever happened to him?

PADM√â
I went on to become a Queen. He
went on to become an artist.

ANAKIN
Maybe he was the smart one.

PADME
You really don't like politicians,
do you?

ANAKIN
I like two or three, but I'm not
really sure about one of them.
(smiling)
I don't think the system works.

PADME
How would you have it work?

ANAKIN
We need a system where the
politicians sit down and discuss
the problems, agree what's in the
best interests of all the people,
and then do it.

PADME
That is exactly what we do. The
trouble is that people don't
wlways agree. In fact, they
hardly ever do.

ANAKIN
Then they should be made to.

PADME
By whom? Who's going to make them?

ANAKIN
I don't know. Someone.

PADME
You?

ANAKIN
Of course not me.

PADME
But someone.

ANAKIN
Someone wise.

PADME
That sounds an awful lot like a
dictatorship to me.

A mischievious little grin creeps across his face.

ANAKIN
Well, if it works...

PADME stares at ANAKIN. He looks back at her, straight-faced, and can't hold a smile.

PADM√â
You're making fun of me.

ANAKIN
(sarcastic)
On no, I'd be much too frightened
to tease a Senator.

PADM√â
You're so bad!

PADME picks up a piece of fruit and throws it at him. He catches it. PADME throws two more pieces of fruit, and ANAKIN catches them.

ANAKIN
You're always so serious. Always
carrying the weight of the
universe on your shoulders.

ANAKIN then starts to juggle the fruit. PADME laughs and throws more fruit at him. He manages to juggle them too until there are too many, and he loses control and ducks, letting food fall on his head. They both laugh.

ANAKIN stands in front of a SHAAK, yelling at it and waving his arms. PADME starts laughing as ANAKIN runs in circles, chased by the SHAAK.

The SHAAK crosses in front of PADME. ANAKIN is riding it, facing the SHAAK'S tail. The SHAAK bucks, and ANAKIN falls off. PADME laughs even harder. ANAKIN lies still. PADME jumps uip and runs to where ANAKIN is face down in the grass. She turns him over. He is pulling a stupid face at her. She yelps in mock fury and takes a swing at him. He catches her arm. She struggles. They roll over in the grass. Suddenly, they become aware of the contact between them. They let go of each other quickly and sit up, looking away.

ANAKIN stands up and holds out his hand to her. She take it. He pulls her up. And now they are easy together, not self-conscious any more. PADME scrambles up onto the SHAAK behind ANAKIN. She puts her arms around his waist and leans against his back. ABAJUB digs his heels in. The SHAAK starts forward, and they ride away.

EXT. TIPOCA CITY, PARADE GROUND (RAINSTORM) - DAY
OBI-WAN, LAMA SU and TAUN WE come out onto a balcony. Below is a huge parade ground. The rain and wind are brutal. THOUSANDS OF STORMTROOPERS, faces covered by helmets, are marching and drilling in formations of several hundred.

LAMA SU
(beaming)
Magnificent, aren't they?

OBI-WAN nods slowly.

INT. TIPOCA CITY, CLONE CENTER, COMMINSSARY - DAY
LAMA SU conducts OBI-WAN through a large eating area. TAUN WE follows as they walk by HUNDREDS OF CLONES who look exactly alike, all about twenty years old, dressed in black. They are seated at tables, eating.

LAMA SU
We modified their genetic
structure to make them less
independent than the original
host. As a result they are
totally obedient, taking any order
without question.

OBI-WAM
Who was the original host?

LAMA SU
A bounty hunter called Jango Fett.
We felt a Jedi would be the
perfect choice, but Sido-Dyas hand-
picked Jango Fett himself.

OBI-WAN
Where is this bounty hunter now?

LAMA SU
Oh, we keep him here. After a few
hundred thousand clones, the
genetic pattern starts to fade, so
we take a fresh supply. He lives
here, but he's free to come and go
as he pleases.

INT. TIPOCA CITY, CLONE CENTER, BARRACKS - DAY
The tour continues through a long corridor folled with narrow, transparent tubes into which CLONES are climbing. Once in the tube, the CLONE goes to sleep.

LAMA SU
Apart from his pay, which is
considerable, Fett demanded only
one thing - an unaltered clone for
himself. Curious isn't it?

OBI-WAN
Unaltered?

LAMA SU
Pure genetic replication. No
tampering with the structure to
make it more docile... and no
growth acceleration...

OBI-WAN
I would like to meet this Jango
Fett.

TAUN WE
I would be most happy to arrange
it, for you.

TAUN WE bows, and leaves.

INT. TIPOCA CITY, CLONE CENTER, CLASSROOM - DAY
The tour continues through a classroom filled with IDENTICAL YOUNG BOY CLONES.

OBI-WAN
You mentioned growth
acceleration...

LAMA SU
Oh yes, it's essential.
Otherwise, a mature clone would
take a lifetime to grow. Now, we
can do it in half the time. Those
items you saw on the parade ground
were started ten years ago, when
Sido-dyas first placed the order,
and they're already mature...

OBI-WAN looks at the BOY CLONES.

OBI-WAN
And these?

LAMA SU
About five years ago.

INT. TIPOCA CITY, CLONE CENTER, HATCHERY - DAY
They enter a space filled with great racks of glass spheres, which are filled with fluid in which EMBRYOS are suspended.

LAMA SU
They're immensely superior to
droids, capable of independent
thought and action.

OBI-WAN
Very impressive.

LAMA SU
I'd hoped you would be pleased. 

OBI-WAN gazes at the nearest embryos.

OBI-WAN
(carefully)
Tell me, prime minister, when my
Master Sido-dyas first contacted
you, did he say the order was
for... himself... or?

LAMA SU
Himself? Of course not. This
army is for the Republic?

OBI-WAN
(astonished)
The Repubic?

LAMA SU
We are also very much agasint this
Count Dooku and his seccessionist
movement. We are proud to be of
help to the Republic.

INT. TIPOCA CITY, APARTMENT - LATE DAY
TAUN WE shows OBI-WAN into his room.

TAUN WE
I have arranged for you to meet
Jango Fett in the morning. Sleep
well.

TAUN WE goes. The door slides closed behind him. OBI-WAN looks around, then moves swiftly to check the room over. Finally, satisfied, he takes out his comlink.

OBI-WAN
Arfour, Arfour...

EXT. TIPOCA CITY LANDING PLATFORM, JEDI FIGHTER, (RAINSTORM) - LATE DAY
The R4 D17, Obi-Wan's Astro-Droid, who is sitting on top of Obi-Wan's Starfighter, switches on and BEEPS.

INT. TIPOCA CITY, APARTMENT - LATE DAY
OBI-WAN hears ARFOUR BEEP through his comlink.

OBI-WAN
Arfour, relay this, "scramble code
five," to Courscant: care of "the
old folks home."

EXT. TIPOCA CITY LANDING PLATFORM, JEDI FIGHTER, (RAINSTORM) - LATE DAY
ARFOUR BEEPS and WHISTLES. The panels light up inside the cockpit, as the message is transmitted.

EXT. JEDI TEMPLE, LIVINF QUARTERS - EARLY EVENING
YODA and MACE WINDU listen as a hologram of OBI-WAN stands between them broadcasting the massage. The singnal is very weak, the image fades in and out.

OBI-WAN (V.O.)
...I've never heard of a Jedi
called Sido-Dyas, have you, Master?

MACE WINDU
No. Whoever placed that order was
not a Jedi, I can assure you.

OBI-WAN (V.O.)
I have a strong feeling that this
bounty hunter is the assassin
we're looking for.

YODA
Who he is working for... discover
that, you must.

OBI-WAN (V.O.)
I will, Master, and I will also
find out more about this clone
army... May The Force...

The hologram switches off, and OBI-WAN fades away.

WINDU 
A clone army! Ordered by someone
in the Senate perhaps... Someone's
out to start a war.

YODA
Inform the chancellor of this, we
must.

WINDU
Who do you think this impostor
Sido-Dyas, could be?

YODA stares back at MACE WINDU, then slowly shakes his head.

EXT. NABOO LAKE RETREAT - NIGHT
The silent lodge. The triple moons of Naboo reflected in the tranquil waters of the lake.

INT. NABOO LAKE RETREAT, ANAKIN'S BEDROOM - NIGHT
ANAKIN moves restlessly in his sleep. He mutters to himself. Sweat 
forms on his forehead. He turns violently. He cries out.

ANAKIN
No...No...No...Mom!...Don't,
no, don't!

EXT. NABOO LAKE RETREAT, LODGE, BALCONY OVERLOOKING GARDENS - MORNING
ANAKIN is on the balcony overlooking the gardens. After a moment, PAMDE comes onto the balcony behind him. She sees he is meditating and turns to go.

ANAKIN
(eyes closed)
Don't go.

PAMDE
I don't want to disturb you.

ANAKIN
Your presence is soothing.

Brief pause.

PADME
You had a nightmare again last
night.

ANAKIN
Jedi don't have nightmares.

PADME
I heard you.

ANAKIN'S opens his eyes and looks at her.

ANAKIN
I saw my mother. I saw her as
clearly as I see you now. She's
suffering, Padme. She is in
pain...They're killing her!
(getting up)
I know I'm disobeying my mandate
to protect you, Senator. I know I
will be punished and possibly
thrown out of the Jedi Order, but
I must go. I have to help her!
I'm sorry, Padme. I don't have a
choice.

PADME
Annie, I told you I wouldn't let
you give up your future for me.
I'll go with you. That way you
can continue to protect me, and
you won't be disobeying your
mandate.

ANAKIN
What about Master Obi-wan?

PADME smiles and takes his hand.

PADME
I guess we won't tell him, will we?

EXT. NABOO LAKE, FLOATING LANDING PLATFORM - DAY
ANAKIN and PADME step onto the landing platform from the water speeder. They enter the Naboo Starship. ARTOO BEEPS, and follows them on board. The ramp retracts.

PADDY ACCU drives the water speeder away from the platform as Anakin's Starship takes off.

EXT. TIPOCA CITY (RAINSTORM) - DAY
Rain lashes the city. Below, mightly waves pound the stilts, breaking almost to the height of the platforms.

INT. TIPOCA CITY, CORRIDOR - DAY
TAUN WE conducts OBI-WAN to the door of Jango Fett's apartment. TAUN WE waves his hand, and a muted bell RINGS.

As they wait, OBI-WAN notes the door lock entry mechanism. Then the door opens, and a ten-year-old boy, BOBA FETT, looks at them. He is identical to the boys in the classroom.

TAUN WE
Boba, is your father here?

There is a brief pause, then BOBA FETT nods.

TAUN WE
(continuing)
May we see him?

BOBA FETT
Sure.

Another brief pause, then BOBA FETT steps aside, and TAUN WE and OBI-WAN go through.

INT. TIPOCA CITY, FETT APARTMENT - DAY
OBI-WAN, TAUN WE, and BOBA FETT enter the apartment. OBI-WAN looks around the room.

BOBA FETT
Dad! Taun We's here!

JANGO FETT comes in from the bedroom. He wears a jumpsuit. He is unshaven and mean looking, his face pitted with scars of old wounds. There are a couple of weird tattoos on his muscular forearms. He eyes OBI-WAN with suspicion.

TAUN WE
Welcome back, Jango. Was your
trip productive?

JANGO FETT
Fairly.

OBI-WAN and JANGO FETT size each other up. BOBA FETT studies both of them.

TAUN WE
This is Jedi Master, Obi-Wan
Kenobi. He's come to check on our
progress.

JANGO FETT
That right?

JANGO FETT'S eyes fix OBI-WAN coldly.

OBI-WAN
Your clones are very impressive.
You must be very proud.

JANGO FETT
I'm just a simple man, trying to
make my way in the universe,
Master Jedi.

OBI-WAN
Aren't we all?

OBI-WAN eyes the half-open bedroom door, through which a couple of pieces of body armour can be seen on the floor. JANGO FETT registers OBI-WAN'S look. He moves in front of him, blocking the view.

OBI-WAN
(continuing)
Ever made your way as far into the
interior as Coruscant?

JANGO
Once or twice.

OBI-WAN
Recently?

JANGO
(eyes Obi-Wan carefully)
Possibly...

OBI-WAN
Then you must know Master Sido-
Dyas?

JANGO
Boba, close the door.

BOBA FETT moves to close the bedroom door. JANGO FETT smiles thinly at OBI-WAN.

JANGO
(continuing)
Master who?

OBI-WAN
Sido-Dyas. Isn‚Äôt he the Jedi who
hired you for this job?

JANGO
Never heard of him. I was
recuited by a man called Darth
Tyranus on one of the moons of
Bogden.

OBI-WAN
No? I thought...

TAUN WE
Sido-Dyas told us to expect him.
And he showed up just when your
Jedi Master said he would. We
have kept the Jedi‚Äôs involvement
a secret until your arrival, just
as your Master requested.

OBI-WAN
Curious...

JANGO
Do you like your army?

OBI-WAN
It seems to me it's your army -
being that they are all clones of
you.

JANGO
(grinning)
They'll do their job well, I'll
guarantee that.

OBI-WAN
I look forward to seeing them in
action. Thank you for your time,
Jango.

JANGO
Always a pleasure to meet a Jedi.

OBI-WAN and TAUN WE go out. The door slides closed. JANGO FETT turns to his son. He is deep in thought.

BOBA
What is it, Dad?

EXT. SPACE
The Naboo Starship heads toward the desert planet of Tatooine.

EXT. TATOOINE, MOS ESPA STREETS AND WATTO'S SHIP - DAY
The Naboo Starship lands in a large parking lot of Spaceships on the outskirts of Mos Espa. ANAKIN and PADME ride a rickshaw through the streets. ANAKIN stares at sights he hasn't seen for years. Finally, they come  to Wattos' shop, and the rickshaw stops.

ANAKIN
(to the droid driver)
Wait, please.

ANAKIN and PADME get down. Sitting on a stool in front of the shop is WATTO. He is using a small electronic screwdriver on a fiddly DROID. THREE PIT DROIDS are chattering away and are trying to help him, but they seem only to make him madder.

WATTO
(yelling, in Huttese)
No, not that one - that one!

ANAKIN
(arriving)
Excuse me, Watto.

WATTO
(in Huttese)
What?

ANAKIN
(in Huttese)
I said excuse me.

WATTO turns to the chattering PIT DROIDS.

WATTO
(in Huttese)
Shut down.

The PIT DROIDS snap into their storage position.

WATTO
(continuing, in Huttese)
What? I don't know you... What can
I do for you? You look like a
Jedi. Whatever it is... I didn't
do it.

WATTO drops the screwdriver and curses loudly in Huttese

ANAKIN
Let me help you with that.

ANAKIN takes the fiddly piece of equipment and starts to play with it. WATTO blinks in surprise.

ANAKIN
(continuing)
I'm looking for Shmi Skywalker.

WATTO looks at him suspiciously. He stares at PADME, then back to ANAKIN.

WATTO
Annie?? Little Annie?? Naaaah!!

Suddenly, the fiddly piece of equipment in Anakin's hands WHIRS into life. WATTO blinks at it.

WATTO
(continuing; in English)
You are Annie! It is you! You
little womp rat.

WATTO gives ANAKIN a big hug.

WATTO
(continuing)
You sure sprouted Weehoo! A
Jedi! Waddya know? Hey, maybe
you couldda help wit some
daedbeats who owe...

ANAKIN
My mother...

WATTO
Oh, yeah. Shmi... she's not mine
no more. I sold her.

ANAKIN
Sold her...

WATTO
Years ago. Sorry, Anne, but you
know, business is business.
Sold her to a moisture farmer
named Lars. Least I think it was
Lars. Believe it or not, I heard
he freed her and married her. Can
ya beat that?

ANAKIN
Do you know where they are?

WATTO
Long way from here... someplace
over on the other side of Mos
Eisley, I think...

ANAKIN
I'd like to know.

ANAKIN'S grim look means business; WATTO gets the hint quickly.

WATTO
Yeah... sure... absolutely. Let's
go look in my records.

ANAKIN and WATTO go into the shop.

EXT. TIPOCA CITY (RAINSTORM) - DAY
The waves crash against the water city as the storm continues. Light suddenlyt streams from the base of a landing platform as a door slides open.

INT. TIPOCA CITY, CORRIDOR - DAY
OBI-WAN stands with LAMA SU and TAUN WE just inside the open door.

LAMA SU
Tell your Council the first
battalions are ready. And remind
them that if they need more
troops, we will need time to grow
them.

OBI-WAN
I won't forget.

EXT. TIPOCA CITY, KAMINO LANDING PLATFORM (RAINSTORM) - DAY
OBI-WAN comes out from the tower into the driving ran. The door closes behind him. He pulls his robe around him and stands braced against the gale.

Below, a huge wave crashes against the stilts. Spray flies high and whips across the platform where OBI-WAN is standing. He walks over to his Starfighter, looks to see if anyone is watching, then turns and goes back to the door. It slides open.

INT. TIPOCA CITY, CORRIDOR - DAY
OBI-WAN enters cautiously from outside. Ahead, the corridor is deserted. He moves down it.

INT. TIPOCA CITY, FETT APARTMENT - DAY
OBI-WAN walks in to find the room in complete disorder. The bedroom door is wide open - clear signs of hurried departure. All of the Fetts' personal belongings are gone.

OBI-WAN goes to an ultra-thin computer screen. He punches up AN ONSCREEN PICTURE of JANGO FETT and BOBA FETT unhitching the lines securing their ship to the landing platform. JANGO FETT is wearing his armour and rocket pack. BOBA FETT climbs aboard the small Fighter.

EXT. TIPOCA CITY, KAMINO LANDING PLATFORM (RAINSTORM) - DAY
JANGO FETT picks up a case and swings it up to BOBA FETT, who stows it inside the ship. JANGO FETT picks up another case and is about to swing it, when:

BOBA FETT
Dad!!

JANGO FETT turns to see OBI-WAN charging out of the tower toward him. As he runs, OBI-WAN draws his lightsaber from his belt. It flashes on.

JANGO FETT draws his gun and fires at the charging JEDI. OBI-WAN deflects the blast and swings at JANGO FETT.

The bounty hunter rockets up and over OBI-WAN, landing behind him. He fires a thin wire from his wrist pack, trying to entangle the Jedi.

JANGO FETT fire several Kamino Kyber Darts from his elbow launcher. OBI-WAN deflects them back at JANGO FETT, but they strike harmlessly against the bounty hunter's armour.

IN THE COCKPIT of Jango Fett's ship, BOBA FETT grabs the controls of a laser gun and swings it to aim at OBI-WAN.

OUTSIDE, in the driving rain, OBI-WAN and JANGO FETT circle each other, sizing each other up - feinting.

IN THE COCKPIT, each time BOBA FETT is ready to fire, JANGO FETT blocks his view of OBI-WAN.

OUTSIDE, OBI-WAN makes a sudden attack, swinging at JANGO FETT, who deflects the blows. One slices off a piece of the bounty hunter's shoulder plate. JANGO FETT rockets into the air and hovers above OBI-WAN. The Jedi spins as:

IN THE COCKPIT, BOBA FETT fires.

OUTSIDE, the laser shell streaks past OBI-WAN to strike the edge of the tower. JANGO FETT fires down at OBI-WAN. The Jedi deflects the shots back, but JANGO FETT evades them. Then he swoops down, swinging around OBI-WAN. As he shoots past, he kicks the lightsaber out of the Jedi's hand.

The lightsaber skids across the wet surface of the landing platform. OBI-WAN dives after it. JANGO FETT zooms in front of him and grabs the lightsaber. OBI-WAN punches it out of his hand.

IN THE COCKPIT, BOBA FETT watches as:

OUTSIDE, OBI-WAN and JANGO FETT grapple and fight, punching, kicking, grabbing hold, and throwing each other around. OBI-WAN grabs JANGO FETT tightly, and JANGO FETT rockets up into the air and kicks OBI-WAN loose. OBI-WAN crashes to the deck and slides toward the edge. He grapples desperately for a handhold on the slick surface.

JANGO FETT rockets down to kick at him. OBI-WAN hauls himself up. JANGO FETT zooms to the far side of the platform.

OBI-WAN uses Jedi powers to pull part of the structure loose. It hits JANGO FETT, who loses his balance, teetering on the edge. OBI-WAN charges acress, dives, and grabs hold of JANGO FETT just as he falls over the edge.

Locked together, OBI-WAN and JANGO FETT plummet down toward the raging ocean. At the last moment, JANGO FETT fires a cable out of his backpack that shoots upward and locks onto a metal strut on the underside of the platform. OBI-WAN and JANGO FETT swing and CRASH onto one of the stilts.

OBI-WAN is knocked clear and drops onto a SMALL SERVICE PLATFORM just above the waves. He hauls himself to his feet. JANGO FETT hovers in mid-air opposite him, as a HUGE WAVE crashes over OBI-WAN. When it subsides, the Jedi has disappeared.

JANGO FETT rockets up to the landing platform, where he drops down beside his ship. He clambers inside the cockpit and settles into the pilot's seat. He punches buttons. The engines ROAR.

OUTSIDE, Jango Fett's ship lifts off from the platform and heads up into the lowering sky. It disappears. Lightning flashes. Rain lashes the tower and streams across the surface of the platform, to where:

A HAND suddenlt clutches at the very edge of the platform. A moment later, ANOTHER HAND grabs hold.

EXT. TATOOINE, BLUFF OVERLOOKING HOMESTEAD - LATE DAY
The Naboo Starship descends, hovers, and land on a bluff. ANAKIN and PADME get out. They look down from the edge of the bluff to where the homestead is seen on the desert floor below.

PADME
Stay with the ship, Artoo.

ARTOO WHISTLES as ANAKIN and PADME start down the trail toward the homestead.

EXT. TATOOINE, DESERT, HOMESTEAD MOISTURE FARM - LATE DAY
C-3PO is working outside the homestead. He still lacks an outer covering; his inner parts and wiring show. He looks up as ANAKIN and PADME arrive,

C-3PO
Good evening. May I help you?

ANAKIN
Threepio?

C-3PO
Oh, my... oh, my! Master
Anakin! My goodness, I can hardly
believe it! And this must be Miss
Padme.

PADME
Hello, Threepio.

ANAKIN
I've come to see my mother.

C-3PO
Oh, dear! I'm so terribly sorry,
Master Annie.

PADME
Threepio, what's happened?

C-3PO
I think we'd better go inside.

EXT. TATOOINE, HOMESTEAD, COURTYARD - LATE DAY
ANAKIN, PADME and THREEPIO arrive in the courtyard. THREEPIO shuffles ahead.

C-3PO
Master Lars - Master Owen!
Somebody to see you!

OWEN LARS and BERU WHITESUN come out into the courtyard.

ANAKIN
I'm Anakin Skywalker. I'm here
looking for my mother.

OWEN
Owen Lars... I guess I'm your
step-brother.
(they shake hands)
This is my girlfriend, Beru.

BERU
Hello.

PADME
I'm Padme.

OWEN
I had a feeling you might show up
some day.

ANAKIN
Is my mother here?

CLIEGG
No, she's not.

CLIEGG LARS swings from the house on a small floating chair. One of his legs is heavily bandaged; the other is missing. He balances awkwardly and puts out a hand.

CLIEGG
(continuing)
Cliegg Lars. Shmi is my wife...
Come on inside. We have a lot to
talk about.

INT. TATOOINE, HOMESTEAD, KITCHEN - LATE DAY
BERU puts several steaming cups of ardees on a tray and exits the kitchen...

CLIEGG (O.S.)
It was just before dawn. They
came out of nowhere. A hunting
party of Tusekn Raiders.

INT. TATOOINE, HOMESTEAD, DINING AREA - LATE DAY
CLIEGG, OWEN, PADME and ANAKIN sit around the table, BERU brings the drinks from the kitchen.

CLIEGG
Your mother had gone out early,
like she always did, to pick
mushrooms that grow on the
vaporatos. From the tracks, she
was about halfway when they
took her. Those Tuskens walk like
men, but they're vicious, mindless
monsters. Thirty of us went out
after her. Four of us came back.
Three more are still out there
looking. I'd be with them,
only... I just couldn't ride any
more... until I heal.

CLIEGG grimaces, easing his throbbing leg.

CLIEGG
(continuing)
This isn't the way I wanted to
meet you, son. This isn't how
your mother and I planned it. I
don't want to give up on her, but
she's been gone a month. There's
little hope she's lasted this long.

Silence. Then ANAKIN stands up.

OWEN
Where are you going?

ANAKIN
To find my mother.

PADME
No, Annie!

CLIEGG
She's daed, son. Accept it.

ANAKIN
I can feel her pain, and I will
find her. I know she's alive.

ANAKIN turns abruptly.

EXT. TATOOINE, HOMESTEAD, MOISTURE FARM - LATE DAY
ANAKIN stands looking across the desert. PADME comes running out of the homestead after him, followed by OWEN. ANAKIN turns to PADME.

ANAKIN
You are going to have to stay
here. These are good people,
Padme. You'll be safe.

OWEN
Take my speeder bike.

PADME
Anakin...

PADME hugs him. ANAKIN walks over to Owen's speeder bike, which is standing close by.

ANAKIN
I trust you'll watch over her,
Owen.

OWEN
Don't worry.

ANAKIN swings onto the bike. The engine fires.

ANAKIN
I won't be long.

ANAKIN takes off across the desert. PADME watches him go.

EXT. SPACE, GEONOSIS
The red planet of Geonosis is circled by a large asteroid field that form rings. Jango Fett's ship appears, heading toward it.

INT. COCKPIT, FETT SHIP, SPACE, GEONOSIS
JANGO FETT grins at BOBA FETT.

JANGO FETT
Nearly there, son.

JANGO FETT guides he ship around the asteroids. Suddenly:

BOBA FETT
Dad, look!!

On the view screen, Obi-Wan's ship appears, chasing after them. JANGO FETT grabs the controls. They are thrown around as the ship plummets to try to lose OBI-WAN.

JANGO FETT
Hang on!

The ship goes into a power-climb. A GREAT SPACE DDOGFIGHT ensues between OBI-WAN and JANGO FETT.

EXT. SPACE, GEONOSIS
The ships flip, roll, and turn at incredible speed, didging, weaving and firing. They tumble from near misses. Hits fly off Obi-Wan's fighter as one of Jango's missiles gets through.

Finally, it seems as if OBI-WAN is getting the upper hand. JANGO FETT breaks off the fight and dives sharply. He maneuvers deftly between two huge asteroids.

In JANGO FETT'S COCKPIT, BOBA FETT flinches as asteroids pass very close by.

BOBA FETT
Dad! Watch out!

JANGO FETT
Stay calm, son. We'll be fine.
That Jedi won't be able to follow
us through this.

But Obi-Wan ship dives into the asteroid belt after them.

IN OBI-WAN'S COCKPIT, his skill is pushed to the limit as he throws the ship from side to side, avoiding great rocks. Then a huge asteroid tumbles across his path. There seem no way he can avoid it. OBI-WAN fires a couple of aerial torpedoes. They streak toward the asteroid.

IN JANGO'S COCKPIT, they see the huge explosion as Obi-Wan's ship appears to smash into the asteroid.

BOBA FETT
Got him! Yeahhhhh!

JANGO FETT
We won't see him again.

BOBA FETT laughs. Jango Fett's ship emerges from the asteroid belt and heads down toward the planet of Geonosis.

EXT. TATOOINE, DESERT, JAWA CAMP - SUNSET
ANAKIN stands in the middle of a crowd of JAWAS. He asks them from directions. The JAWAS confer exicitedly, then the CHIEF JAWA points in a particular direction. ANAKIN gets on the bike and speeds off to where the JAWA pointed.

EXT. TATOOINE, DUNE SEA, CAMPFIRE - TWILIGHT
ANAKIN rides over a large dune toward a small flickering light in the distance.

He rides up and stops the bike in front of a campfire. There are bodies of THREE DEAD FARMERS lying beside the campfire. TWO EOPIES are thethered nearby, along with a burned and smoking speeder.

EXT. TATOOINE, LANDSCAPE (FULL MOON) - NIGHT
THREE DIFFERENT SHOTS. ANAKIN rids the speeder bike through three exotic landscapes. In one shot, he stops and looks down at some tracks. Then he starts up his speeder and rides off.

EXT. TATOOINE, DESERT, HOMESTEAD (FULL MOON) - NIGHT
The lights of the vaporators blink in the night sky. Somewhere close by, a night animal HOWLS.

EXT. TATOOINE, HOMESTEAD, COURTYARD (FULL MOON) - NIGHT
PADME is pacing the courtyard restlessly. She stops, listening to the animal HOWLING nearby. She shivers slightly, then turns and goes into the garage at the side of the courtyard.

INT. TATOOINE, HOMESTEAD - GARAGE (FULL MOON) - NIGHT
PADME stands looking at a speeder parked in the garage. Short silence. Then:

C-3PO
Please don't leave us, Miss Padme.
These people need your help.

THREEPIO is parked in a corner.

PADME
I'm not leaving, Threepio. I just
can't sleep.

C-3PO
That's something I cannot relate
to. As a Protocol Droid, I'm
either active or inactive.
There's no in-between.

PADME
I guess you're lucky.

C-3PO
Do you really think so..? I
suppose I shouldn't expect...

PADME
You're not happy here?

C-3PO
Oh, I'm not unhappy... and my
masters here ar so kind I
wouldn't wish to trouuble them,
it's just... being like this...
well, it's embarrassing.

PADME
Being like what?

C-3PO
Naked. If you pardon the
expression. You see, when Master
Annie made me, he never quite
found the time to give me any
outer covering. It's so
humiliating. How would you like it
if you had to go around with all
your circuits showing?

PADME
I guess I wouldn't like it at all.

C-3PO
Of course you wouldn't. Nobody
would. It's simply not protocol.

PADME looks thoughtfully at a pile of spare parts and bits of metal and tools.

PADME
Maybe we can do something about it.

C-3PO
I don't think so. Only Master
Annie...

PADME
Why not? They seem to have a box
of old coverings here.

C-3PO
Oh? How observant of you, Miss
Padme. Of course, I'm just not
mechanically minded... if you see
what I mean.

PADME picks up a piece of metal and holds it against him.

PADME
Let's see, if we put this...
here...

C-3PO
Ooooh! That's tickles.

PADME
You'll have to be quiet, Threepio.
Hold still, please.

EXT. SPACE, GEONOSIS RINGS
A huge chunk of rock tumbles slowly through the asteroid bely. CAMERA CLOSES, to discover Obi-Wan's Starship hidden in a blasted-out area on the pitted back side of the great rock.

INT. COCKPIT, JEDI FIGHTER, SPACE, GEONOSIS RINGS
OBI-WAN looks out toward Geonosis and sees in the distance a large fleet of Trade Federation Ships hidden among the asteroids. He starts the engines of his fighter.

Obi-Wan's Fighter moves out from the back side of the asteroid and heads away from the asteroid field, descending toward Geonosis.

EXT. GEONOSIS, LANDING AREA - NIGHT
Obi-Wan's ship skims across the top of a small mesa along the edge of a rocky ridge. He maneuvers under a rock overhang and lands. He gets out of the Fighter and walks onto the mesa. The wind whips at him. He looks around.

Geonosis is a red rock planet, featureless apart from buttes and mesas, and occasional tall stalagmites that stand out dramatically on the arid plains.

The night is quiet, except for an occasional WEIRD CRY. OBI-WAN checks his bearings, then heads away.

EXT. GEONOSIS, ROCK FACE TRAIL - NIGHT
OBI-WAN climbs a steep, narrow trail. Suddenly, a CRY is heard close by. OBI-WAN stumbles slightly. His foot slips on the edge, sending a stream of peblles skittering into the darkness.

OBI-WAN listens. Silence. He draws his lightsaber but does not ignite it.

He sets off again and works his way around a narrow corner, to confront a crouching MASSIFF (a dog-sized lizard) with slavering fangs! The beast leaps at him, and OBI-WAN ignites his lightsaber as the MASSIFF knocks him on his back. Its jaws open wide. OBI-WAN stabs the creature, throws it off of him, and jumps up.

A SECOND MASSIFF jumps from behind. OBI-WAN swings around and cuts it in half. The MASSIFF flies over the cliff, HOWLING. It plummets to its death hundreds of feet below.

EXT. TATOOINE, CLIFF (FULL MOON) - NIGHT
ANAKIN pulls up near the edge of a cliff. He gets off the bike and creeps to the edge. He looks over to see a Tusken camp in the oasis below. One of the huts at the edge of the camp has TWO TUSKEN GUARDS outside it.

EXT. TATOOINE, TUSKEN RAIDER CAMP, OASIS (FULL MOON) - NIGHT
ANAKIN creeps through the camp, working his way from hut to hut, flattening himself against the wall,s overhearing snatches of Tusken conversation from inside, using the shadows to him him until he arrives at the hut with the TWO GUARDS. They are sitting a short distance from the door. ANAKIN wriggles around the black. He takes out his lightsaber and cuts into the base of the wall.

INT. TUSKEN RAIDER HUTT - NIGHT
The lightsaber completes the hole in the wall. ANAKIN wriggles in. He pulls himself to his feet. There are candles everywhere.

A shaft of moonlight from a hole in the roof pierces the gloom of the hut. By its light, ANAKIN sees SHMI, hanging from a wooden frame in the middle of the hut.

He cuts her free, takes her into his arms, and lowers her gently to the ground. Her eyes are closed. Her face is bloodied. She has been 
terribly beaten. Anakin cradles her tenderly.

ANAKIN
Mom... Mom... Mom... 

SHMI'S eyelids flutter - and barely open. They are caked with blood.

SHMI
Annie...? Is it you?

SHMI'S eyes focus slowly. ANAKIN gives a little choking gasp.

ANAKIN
I‚Äôm here, Mom. You‚Äôre safe. Hang
on. I‚Äôm going to get you out of
here...

SHMI
I‚Äôm so glad... to see you,
Annie... Now... I am complete...

ANAKIN
Just stay with me, Mom. I‚Äôm going
to make you well again.
Everything‚Äôs going to be fine.

SHMI
You look so handsome. My son...
my grown-up son. I‚Äôm so proud of
you, Annie... so proud... I missed
you so much... I love...

SHMI dies. ANAKIN draws her to his breast. There is silence for a moment. ANAKIN lifts his head, listening for a moment, then he sits on the floor of the Tusken hut, cradling his dead mother in his arms.

EXT. GEONOSIS, ROCK FACE TRAIL - NIGHT
OBI-WAN arrives at the head of the trail. Far below, a flat plain stretches into the distance. He stop, peering into the darkness, where strange shapes loom indistinctly.

OBI-WAN takes a pair of electronic binoculars from his belt and puts them to his eyes. He sees a cluster of great towers like fantastic stalagmites rise from the plain below.

SLOW PAN with the binoculars, and suddenly a line of Battle Starships come into view. OBI-WAN touches the viewfinder. Between fifty and a hundred Federation Starships in near rows. Some are on platforms that are carrying the Starships diwn to an underground facility. Other platforms are rising to the surface. They carry THOUSANDS of BATTLE DROIDS that step off and file into the waiting ships. A fully loaded Starship takes off. OBI-WAN swings the binoculars upward, to see more Federation Starships.

EXT. TATOOINE, TUSKEN RAIDER CAMP, OASIS - DAWN
The pale light grows. Thin tendrils of smoke rise slowly in the cold, clear air. Somewhere an dog BARKS. An OLD WOMAN comes out of one of the huts. She carries a pail. She swirls it and tosses the dirty water onto the ground.

As she goes back inside the hut, a TUSKEN CHILD runs past, dragging a stick in the sand. The CHILD runs through the line of huts, turns a corner, and stops suddenly, staring at the bodies of the TWO TUSKEN GUARDS. Between them, ANAKIN stands outside the hut door. His face is a grim mask. The CHILD stares, then there is a FLASH OF LIGHT as Anakin‚Äôs lightsaber switches on.

EXT. GEONOSIS, LANDING AREA - NIGHT
OBI-WAN comes running back to his ship and climbs into the cockpit. He settles into his seat. His ARFOUR DROID beeps a happy greeting. OBI-WAN switches on his comlink.

OBI-WAN
"Guiding light" to "old folks
home."

EXT. CORUSCANT, REPUBLIC EXECUTIVE BUILDING - DAY
LOW ANGLE. A line of reflecting pools with splashing fountains flanked by statues on each side leads to the main entrance to the awesome building.

INT. CORUSCANT, CHANCELLOR'S OFFICE
A hologram of OBI-WAN flickers in front of a group, made up of Jedi (YODA, MACE WINDU, and KI-ADI-MUNDI) and Senators (BAIL ORGANA, ASK AAK, LUMINARA, and JAR JAR). PALPATINE and MAS AMEDDA are in the middle of the group, watching with growing concern.

OBI-WAN
...Starships from the Trade
Federation and the Commerce Guilds
are taking deliveries of battle
droids from the foundries on
Geonosis.

BAIL ORGANA
That's outrageous! The treaty
forbids the Trade Federation from
building up an army. What are
they doing?!

OBI-WAN
The droid foundry seems to be
working at full capacity. I am
going to go down and investigate.
I will bring Jango Fett back home
for interrogation.

PALPATINE
Those Geonosian foundries are part
of the Techno Union. We will call
in their representatives and ask
them a few very pointed questions.

OBI-WAN
One more thing. Jango mentioned
he was recruited by someone named
Darth Tyranus. Any idea who that
might be?

YODA
With the forename Darth, a Sith he
must be.

MACE WINDU
Our missing apprentice. They are
playing their hand at last.

OBI-WAN
Do you believe he could be the
mysterious Sido-Dyas, who made the
deal for the clone army?

YODA
Perhaps too many pieces are missing
from this puzzle, there are.

MACE WINDU
Be careful, Obi-Wan. This
investigation is becoming less
than routine. Do you need help?

OBI-WAN
Let me see if I can figure out
what's going on first.

The hologram of OBI-WAN fades off. PALPATINE stares at the spot where the hologram was in disbelief.

BAIL ORGANA
The Commerce Guilds are preparing
for war... there can be no doubt
of that.

PALPATINE
Count Dooku must have made a
treaty with them.

MACE WINDU
We must stop them soon before
they're fully ready.

SENATOR ASK AAK
The debate is over, we need
that clone army now!

BAIL ORGANA
Unfortunately, the debate is not
over. The Senate will never be
able to approve the use of that
army before the separatists
attack.

Mas Amedda, who had been silent up until now suddenly speaks up.

MAS AMEDDA
This is a crisis! If the Senate
votes the Chancellor emergency
powers, he could approve the use
of the army in a minute.

PALPATINE
Please, please, I don't wish to
have emergency powers. That's too
extreme a solution. It's akin to
a dictatorship. We must rely on
the Jedi. Master Yoda, how many
are available to go to Geonosis?

MACE WINDU and YODA look at one another.

YODA
Two Hundred,... less or more.

BAIL ORGANA
With all due respect for the Jedi
Order, two hundred will be no
match for hundreds of thousands of
battle droids.

MACE WINDU
Patience. We should wait for Obi-
Wan to report back. We don't know
that Count Dooku has made a treaty
with the Corporate Alliance, it's
speculation.

SENATOR ASK AAK
But we must prepare for the worst.
I'm going to propose a motion
granting emergency powers to the
Chancellor at the next session. We
must not wait!

PALPATINE
Out of the question, Senator! You
and I are too closely aligned.
The issue will become partisan and
debates will begin. The proposal
must come from a neutral source.

MAS AMEDDA
If only Senator Amidala were here.

JAR JAR steps forward from the back of the group.

JAR JAR
Supreme Chancellor... my august
colleagues, I would be proud to
propose the motion in question.
This is a grave situation, and I'm
sure Senator Amidala, and the
Queen of Naboo would agree.

SENATOR ASK AAK
Thank you, Representative Binks.

Silence. Then PALPATINE sighs deeply.

PALPATINE
If called upon, I will serve. But
it will be the saddest day of my
life.

EXT. TATOOINE, DESERT, HOMESTEAD MOISTURE FARM - DAY
All is quiet. BERU comes out of the house. She goes to a moisture line and starts to draw water.

INT. TATOOINE, HOMESTEAD, GARAGE - DAY
PADME fixes the last piece of covering onto THREEPIO.

PADME
There!

PADME stands back. OWEN is with her. They look at THREEPIO. He isn't the golden figure we know because PADME has had to use whatever stuff she could findin the garage. He is multi-coloured in several textures, but he is complete.

C-3PO
Um. How do I look?

OWEN
Great! You look perfect.

C-3PO
Perfect? Oh, Miss Padme, I'm so
happy!
(extending his hand to shake hers)
Oh, pardon me.

THREEPIO drops his hand and bows formally.

THREEPIO
(continuing)
Thank you.

He forgets formality and hugs her. PADME hugs him back, laughing.

C-3PO
(continuing)
Thank you! Thank you! Thank you!

OWEN
(grinning)
Well, Padme, I think he should be
yours from now on... I know that
is what my Mom would want.

C-3PO
Oh, my!

Then suddenly, from outside:

BERU (V.O.)
Come topside, everybody! He's
back! He's back!





PAGE 83

PAGE 84

PAGE 85

PAGE 86

PAGE 87

PAGE 88







INT. TATOOINE, HOMESTEAD, GARAGE - DAY
A rough hologram of OBI-WAN is projected onto the garage by ARTOO. ANAKIN, PADME and THREEPIO watch the flickering image.

OBI-WAN
...Alliance have pledged their
armies to Count Dooku and are
forming an... Wait!... ah...
attack... I don't... make it...
aaaggghhh!

The hologram cuts off. ANAKIN jumps up, agitated.

ANAKIN
I'm going after him!

PADME
I thought the first thing he said
was to retransmit his message to
Coruscant.

ANAKIN
Yeah, you're right, you're right.

EXT. TATOOINE, HOMESTEAD, MOISTURE FARM - LATE DAY
ANAKIN, PADME, ARTOO and THREEPIO leave the homestead, waving to CLIEGG, OWEN and BERU as they go into the desert.

INT. COCKPIT, NABOO STARSHIP - SUNSET
ANAKIN sits down in the cockpit with PADME. THREEPIO is behind them. ARTOO is beside him. They are watching a hologram of MACE WINDU.

MACE WINDU
We will deal with Count Dooku. The
most important thing for you,
Anakin, is to stay where you are.
Protect the Senator at all costs.
That is your priority.

ANAKIN
Understood, Master.

The hologram switches off. PADME is looking at the readout on the ship's control panel.

PADME
They'll never get there in time to
save him. They have to come half
way across the galaxy. Look,
Geonosis is less than a parsec away.

PADME starts to hit buttons and flick switches. ANAKIN puts a hand over hers, stopping her. She stares at him.

ANAKIN
If he's still alive.

PADME
Annie, are you just going to sit
here and let him die?? He's your
friend... your mentor...

ANAKIN
...He's like my father, but you
heard Master Windu. He gave me
strict orders to stay here.

PADME
He gave you strict orders to
protect me...

PADME pulls her hand free and flicks more switches. The engines fire.

PADME
(continuing)
...and I'm going to save Obi-Wan.
So if you plan to protect me, you
will have to come along.

ANAKIN grins and takes the controls.

EXT. TATOOINE, BLUFF OVERLOOKING HOMESTEAD - SUNSET
The Naboo Starship rises from the bluff and zooms away.

EXT. CORUSCANT, JEDI TEMPLE - DAY
TWO HUNDRED JEDI KNIGHTS are assembling outside the huge center of the Jedi Order.

INT. CORUSCANT, JEDI TEMPLE, COUNCIL CHAMBER - DAY
The JEDI COUNCIL are assembled as MACE WINDU makes his plea.

MACE WINDU
The longer we wait, the stronger
Dooku's armies become. We cannot
wait for the Senate to make up its
mind about granting the Chancellor
emergency powers, in order to be
able to use that clone army... We
have the authority to go now. We
must go now.

All of the JEDI COUNCIL nod their approval.

YODA
Agreed, Master Windu. Two hundred
Jedi send. Enough, let's hope
they are.

INT. CORUSCANT, MAIN SENATE CHAMBER - DAY
Inside the great rotunda, the UPROAR is even louder. Opposing SENATOES yell furiously at one another.

MAS AMEDDA
Order! Order!!

Finally, the uproar dies.

PALPATINE
In the regrettable absence of
Senator Amidala, the chair
recognises Senior
Representative of Naboo, Jar Jar
Binks.

Amid the conflicting storm of CHEERS AND BOOS, JAR JAR, with TWO GUNGAN AIDES, floats on his pod to the middle of the vast space. He looks at PALPATINE nervously. PALPATINE nods. JAR JAR clears his throat.

JAR JAR
Senators, dellow felagates...

Laughter. Jeers. JAR JAR blushes.

MAS AMEDDA
Order! The Senate will accord the
Representative the courtesy of a
hearing!

Comparative quiet. JAR JAR grips the edge of the podium.

JAR JAR
In response to the direct threat
to the Republic from the
Confederacy of Independent
Systems, I propose that the Senate
gives immediate emergency powers to
the Supreme Chancellor.

Uproar. JAR JAR looks a little sheepish.

JAR JAR
(continuing)
Who can deny these are exceptional
times? Exceptional times demand
exceptional measures!
Exceptional measures demand
exceptional men!

ORN FREE TAA
We won't support a dictator.

SHOUTS of agreement.

JAR JAR
That is the sentiment every one of
us agrees with! And when the
shadow of war has dispersed and
the bright day of liberty has
dawned once again, the power we now
give to the Supreme Chancellor
will be gladly, and swiftly
returned. Out ancient liberties
will be restored to us, burnished
even more brightly than before!

Brief silence, then a rolling wave of APPLAUSE. JAR JAR beams and bows.

PALPATINE rises.

PALPATINE
It is with great reluctance that
I have agreed to this calling. I
love democracy... I love the
Republic. The fact that this
crisis is demanding I be given
absolute power to tule over you is
evident. But I am mild by nature
and have no desire to destroy
the democratic process. The power you
give me I will lay down when this
crisis has abated, I promise you.
And all I ask in return is when my
current term of office is over,
you allow me to reture and live
out my life in peace.

MAS AMEDDA
We shall proceed to the vote. All
those in favor of granting
emergency powers to the Supreme
Chancellor, signal ate at this
time... those opposed?

EXT. SPACE
The Naboo Starship heads toward the rings of Geonosis.

EXT. GEONOSIS, LANDING AREA
The Naboo Starship lands.

INT. COCKPIT, NAOO STARFIGHTER - DAY
ANAKIN switches off the engines. ARTOO and THREEPIO are in the navigation area of the cockpit. PADME is in the co-pilot's seat. She gets up.

ANAKIN
Hey, where are you going?

PADME
To find Obi-Wan.

ANAKIN gets up and goes over to her.

ANAKIN
No! You're not!

He grabs her arm.

PADME
Let go of me!

ANAKIN
I'm not letting you go out there.
It's too dangerous.

PADM√â
What?!?

ANAKIN
It's my job to protect you. I said
it's too dangerous. You're not
going, and that's final!

PADM√â
Don't you give me orders, Annie!
I'm a Senator of the Galactic
Republic. You have no authority
to contain me, restrain me, or
direct me! You remember your
place, young man.
(standing up)
Now you can come along and protect
me or stay here. It's up to you.

PADME storms out of the cockpit of the Naboo Starfighter. ANAKIN stands scratching his head, then follows.

ARTOO BEEPS and WHISTLES.

C-3PO
Yes, it is, Artoo. Most
confusing. One moment they're
generating a pleasant mutual
attraction and the next, waves of
violent hostility. Even though
I'm programmed to understand them,
I doubt if I ever shall.

ARTOO WHISTLES a plaintive sigh.

INT. GEONOSIS, CORRIDORS - DAY
ANAKIN and PADME enter the stalagmite city. They stop, looking around in wonder at the emptiness.

PADME
(in a low voice)
It's empty!

They start forward. As they pass, the surface of the pillars seems to pulse slowly and move. High above WINGED CREATURES grow from the pillars and detach themselves.

INT. GEONOSIS, CENTRAL SQUARE - DAY
ANAKIN and PADME cross the square, reaching the middle. They stop suddenly as FOUR GEONOSIANS grabs them. ANAKIN reaches for his lightsaber.

PADME
Wait!

TWENTY WINGED GEONOSIANS carrying weapons alight on the flagstones in front of them.

The GEONOSIANS part, and COUNT DOOKU appears. He bows courteously.

COUNT DOOKU
Senator Amidala, I've heard so
much about you.

PADM√â
Count Dooku, I assume.

COUNT DOOKU
I'm delighted to meet you at
last. We have a great deal to
discuss, Senator. I hope you can
keep your young Jedi under control.

PADM√â
Don't worry he's housebroken.

INT. CONFERENCE ROOM (GEONOSIS) - DAY
COUNT DOOKU sits at a large conference table with PADME on the far 
side. ANAKIN stands behind her with FOUR GEONOSIANS GUARDS standing behind him. JANGO FETT stands behind COUNT DOOKU, and SIX GEONOSIAN GUARDS stand behind him.

PADM√â
You are holding a Jedi Knight, Obi-
Wan Kenobi. I am formally
requesting you turn him over to
me, now.

DOOKU
He has been convicted of
espionage, Senator, and will be
executed. In just a few hours, I
believe.

COUNT DOOKU smiles.

PADM√â
He is an officer of the Republic.
You can't do that.

DOOKU
We don't recognise the Republic
here, Senator. But if Naboo were
to join our Alliance, I could
easily hear your plea for clemency.

ANAKIN grabs his lightsaber but doesn't turn it on.

PADM√â
And if I don't join your
rebellion, I assume this Jedi with
me will also die?

DOOKU
I don't wish to make you to join
our cause against your will,
Senator, but you are a rational,
honest representative of your
people and I assume you want to do
what's in their best interest.
Aren't you fed up with the
corruption, the bureaucrats, the
hypocrisy of it all?.. Aren't
you? Be honest, Senator.

PADM√â
The ideals are still alive, Count,
even if the institution is failing.

DOOKU
You believe in the same ideals we
believe in! The same ideals we
are striving to make prominent.

PADM√â
If what you say is true, you
should stay in the Republic and
help Chancellor Palpatine put
things right.

DOOKU
The Chancellor means well, M'Lady
but he is incompetent. He has
promised to cut the bureaucracy,
but the bureaucrats are stronger
than ever, no? Senator, the
Republic cannot be fixed. It is
time to start over. The
democratic process in the Republic
is a sham, a shell game played
on the voters. It will not be long
before the cult of greed, called
the Republic, will lose even the
pretext of democracy and freedom.

PADM√â
I cannot believe that. I will not
forsake all I have honoured and
worked for and betray the
Republic. I know of your treaties
with the Trade Federation, the
Commerce Guilds, and the others,
Count. What is happening here is
not government that has been
bought out by business... it's
business becoming government!

DOOKU
Are you willing to betray your Jedi
friends? Without your co-operation
I can do nothing to stop their
execution.

PADM√â
What is to happen to me? Am I to be
executed also?

DOOKU
I wouldn't think of such an
offence. But, there are
individuals who have a strong
interest in your demise, M'lady.
It has nothing to do with
politics, I'm afraid. It's purely
personal, and they have already
paid great sums to have you
assassinated. I'm sure they will
push hard to have you included in
the executions. I'm sorry but if
you are not going to co-operate, I
must turn you over to the
Geonosians for justice. I've done
all I can for you.

JANGO FETT moves over to ANAKIN.

JANGO FETT
I'll take that weapon.

ANAKIN hesitates.

DOOKU 
You may cause a lot of bloodshed,
my young Jedi, but you will not
escape.

PADM√â
Anakin...

ANAKIN hands his lightsaber over to JANGO FETT.

INT. GEONOSIS, HIGH AUDIENCE CHAMBER - DAY
ANAKIN and PADME are standing in the centre of what looks like a courtroom. Seated before them in a tall, boxed-off area is POGGLE THE LESSER, Archduke of Geonosis. He is accompanied by his underling, SUN RIT. Off to one side the Separatist Senators PO NUDU, TESSEK, and TOONBUCK TOORA. Next to them are the Commerce Dignitaries, SHU MAI, NUTE GUNRAY, PASSEL ARGENTE, WAT TAMBOR and SAN HILL of the Intergalactic Bank Clan. Along the wall about a HUNDRED GEONOSIANS wait for a verdict.

SUN RIT
You have been charged and found
guilty of Espionage.

POGGLE
Do you have anything to say before
your sentence is carried out?

PADM√â
You are committing an act of war,
Archduke. I hope you are prepared
for the consequences.

POGGLE laughs. COUNT DOOKU simply smiles.

POGGLE
We build weapons, Senator... that
is our business! Of course we're
prepared!

NUTE GUNRAY
Get on with it. Carry out the
sentence. I want to see her suffer.

POGGLE
Your other Jedi friend is waiting
for you, Senator. Take them to
the arena!

FOUR GUARDS take hold of PADME and ANAKIN. They are escorted out of the chamber to the sounds of chuckling.

INT. GEONOSIS TUNNEL TO EXECUTION ARENA - DAY
In the gloomy tunnel, ANAKIN and PADME are tossed into an open cart. The murmur of a vast crowd is heard offscreen. GUARDS extend their arms along the framework and tie them so that they stand facing each other.

The DRIVER gets up onto his seat.

ANAKIN
Don't be afraid.

PADM√â
I'm not afraid to die. I've been
dying a little bit each day since
you came back into my life.

ANAKIN
What are you talking about?

PADM√â
I love you.

ANAKIN
You love me?! I thought we
decided not to fall in love. That
we would be forced to live a lie.
That it would destroy our lives...

PADM√â
I think our lives are about to be
destroyed anyway. My love for you
is a puzzle, Annie, for which I
have no answers. I can't control
it... and now I don't care. I
truly, deeply love you, and before
we die I want you to know.

PADME leans toward ANAKIN. By straining hard, it is just possible for 
their lips to meet. They kiss.

ANAKIN
I have no desire to be cured of
this love either. Long or short,
I vow to spend the rest of my life
with you.

They kiss again.

The DRIVER cracks his whip over the ORRAY harnessed between the shafts. The cart jerks forward. Suddenly, there isa HUGE ROAR and blinding sunlight as they emerge into the arena

INT. GEONOSIS, EXECUTION ARENA - DAY
The great stadium is packed with tier upon tier of yelling GEONOSIANS. The cart trundles to the center, where OBI-WAN is chained to one of four upright posts thatare three feet in diameter. The cart stops. PADME and ANAKIN are taken down, dragged to posts, and chained to them. PADME is in the center.

OBI-WAN
I was beginning to wonder if you
had gotten my message.

ANAKIN
I retransmitted it as you
requested, Master. Then we decided
to come and rescue you.

OBI-WAN
It looks like you're going a good
job so far.

Their arms are pulled high above their heads, and the cart drives away. There is another ROAR as POGGLE THE LESSER, COUNT DOOKU, NUTE GUNRAY, THE FETTS and DIGNITARIES arrive in the archducal box and take their places.

SUN RIT
The felons before you have been
convicted of espionage against the
Sovereign System of Geonosis.
Their sentence of death is to be
carried out in this public arena
henceforth.

The crowd ROARS and CHEERS. In the box, POGGLE THE LESSER rises. The crowd becomes quiet.

POGGLE
Let the executions begin!

The crowd goes wild.

ANAKIN
I have a bad feeling about this.

From different gates around the arena, THREE MONSTERS are driven in. One is a REEK (bull-like), one is a NEXU (lion-like), and one is an ACKLAY (a kind of dino-lobster). They are driven in by PICADORS carrying long spears and riding ORRAYS. The PICADORS poke the MONSTERS toward the center, then retire to the perimeter.

The MONSTERS toss their heads, looking around, ROARING or SCREECHING. Then they catch sight of the THREE CAPTIVES and start moving toward them.

OBI-WAN
Take the one the left. I'll
take the one on the right.

ANAKIN
What about Padme?

PADME has turned around and is pulling herself up by the chain to the top of the post. Within a moment, she is standing on top of it, trying to pull the chain free.

OBI-WAN
It looks like she's already on top
of things.

The REEK charges ANAKIN. He jumps up, and the beast hits the post hard. ANAKIN lands onto its back, wrapping part of his chain around its horn. The REEK backs off, shaking its head angrily, which tears the chain from the post

OBI-WAN ducks around the post as the ACKLAY charges. It knocks the post flat, sending OBI-WAN sprawling. The ACKLAY crunches the post between its claws, freeing the chain. OBI-WAN leaps up and runs towards ONE of the PICADORS. The ACKLAY taks off after him.

The NEXU arrives at PADME'S post and rears on its hind legs. One top, PADME struggles to tear the chain free. The NEXU ROARS, displaying wicked, dripping fangs.

In the archducal box, NUTE GUNRAY beams and rubs his hands.

In the arena, OBI-WAN runs at the PICADOR. The ORRAY rears up. OBI-WAN grabs the PICADOR'S long spear and pole vaults over him. The chasing ACKLAY smashes into the ORRAY. It goes down. The PICADOR tumbles onto the sand, where he is grabbed by the ACKLAY and crunched.

ANAKIN's REEK starts to buck. It charges around the arena with ANAKIN hanging on for dear life. He whirls the free length of chain around his head and casts it into the REEK's mouth. Its jaws clamp hard on the chain. ANAKIN yanks hard on the chain, turning the REEK, beginning to ride it.

The NEXU's claws dig deep into the post. The cat-like creature reaches the top of the post and takes a swipe at PADME. She turns and the claw barely catches her shirt ripping it off, leaving superficial claw marks across her back. She hits the creature with her chain and it backs off down the pole. Then, PADME jumps off the post into the air. She swings around on the chain and whacks the beast hard on the head with both her feet. It tumbles back onto the sand.

In the archducal box:

NUTE GUNRAY
Foul!! She can't do that... shoot
her or something!

In the arena, OBI-WAN runs out from behind the fallen ORRAY and throws the spear at the ACKLAY, hitting it in the neck. It lets out a terrible SCREECH and turns on him. The NEXU springs up and makes to leap up at PADME again. She finally manages to work the chain loose. ANAKIN comes charging up on the REEK.

ANAKIN
You okay?

PADME
(nods, gasping)
Sure! Well, sort of.

ANAKIN
Jump!!!

The NEXU springs. PADME leaps from the top of the post to land on the REEK in front of ANAKIN. He hauls her upright. The REEK charges away, around the arena. The NEXU bounds after it. The REEK passes the wounded ACKLAY. The NEXU smells the blood and turns aside to attack the ACKLAY. The TWO MONSTERS fight. The crowd GROANS and BOOS.

In the archducal box, NUTE GUNRAY turns angrily to COUNT DOOKU.

NUTE GUNRAY
This isn't how it's supposed to
be! Jango, finish her off.

COUNT DOOKU motions for the bounty hunter to ptay put. BOBA FETT is enjoying the spectacle.

COUNT DOOKU
(smiling enigmatically)
Patiece, Viceroy... she will die.
Maybe this is the way it's
supposed to end.

OBI-WAN runs and jumps on the back of the REEK behind ANAKIN. Across the arena, the NEXU, having chewed up the ACKLAY, starts to advance toward them.

INT. COCKPIT, NABOO STARSHIP - DAY
ARTOO BEEPS

C-3PO
Yes, it has been rather a long
time. Do you suppose something's
happened to them?

ARTOO BEEPS and WHISTLES.

C-3PO
(continuing)
Danger? Oh no, I shouldn't think
so. It looks a very dull planet
to me. They should be back
shortly. Just stop worrying, Artoo.

EXT. GEONOSIS, EXECUTION ARENA - DAY
In the archducal box, amid the uproar, COUNT DOOKU feels a tap on his shoulder. He turns to see MACE WINDU standing behind him. COUNT DOOKU masks his surprise elegantly as he surveys the arena and sees JEDI KNIGHTS standing at every entrance and exit.

COUNT DOOKU
Master Windu, how pleasant of you
to join us. You're just in time
for the moment of truth. I would
think these two new boys of yours
could use a little more training.

MACE WINDU
Sorry to disappoint you, Dooku.
This party's over.

MACE WINDU signals, and at stategic places around the arena there are sudden flashes of light as about ONE HUNDRED JEDI switch on their lightsabers. The crowd is suddenly silent. COUNT DOOKU'S lips curl in slight amusement.

COUNT DOOKU
(to Mace Windu)
Brave, but stupid, my old Jedi
friend. You're impossibly
outnumbered.

MACE WINDU
I don't think so. One Jedi has to
be worth a hundred Geonosians.

COUNT DOOKU looks around the great theater. His smile grows.

COUNT DOOKU
It wasn't the Geonosians I was
thinking about. How well do you
think one Jedi will hold up
against a thousand battle droids?

COUNT DOOKU signals. THOUSANDS OF DROIDS start to pour into all parts of the arena.

MACE WINDU draws his lightsaber, JANGO FETT draws his guns and fires at MACE WINDU, who deflects the shots. JANGO FETT and MACE WINDU jump into the arena, where they fight. BOBA FETT wacthes his Dad and the Jedi Master fight. The battle beginss. GEONOSIANS fly away everywhere. DROIDS fire at JEDI, who deflect the bolts and cult down the DROIDS. The GEONOSIAN TROOPS fire ray guns that are more difficult for the JEDI to deflect.

The REEK and the NEXU are spooked by the battle. The REEK bucks the riders off its back and stampedes around the arena, trampling DROIDS and JEDI that have moved into its path. PADME picks up a discarded pistol and joins the fight. SEVERAL JEDI run to the center of the arena and toss lightsabers to OBI-WAN and ANAKIN.

Among the crowd, JEDI cut down swaths of GEONOSIANS and DROIDS. On the sand, JEDI fight, attacking DROIDS. OBI0WAN and ANAKIN swing their lightsabers, cutting DROIDS in half. PADME blasts away at DROIDS and GEONOSIANS.

INT. COCKPIT, NABOO STARSHIP
ARTOO whistles.

C-3PO
I don't hear anything.
(Artoo beeps)
You're scaring me! Stop imagining
things!

EXT. GEONOSIS, EXECUTION ARENA - DAY
Among the tiers, JEDI are slowly being driven back. They have killed heaps of GEONOSIANS and have kncoked out piles of DROIDS, but sheer numbers are telling. Individual JEDI are being cut down or blasted/ The rest are retreating into the arena.

ANAKIN and PADME are back-to-back, fighting DROIDS and flying GEONOSIANS. MACE WINDU fights fiercely with JANGO FETT. Finally, the bounty hunter falls. His helmet goes flying, bouncing down the steps, tumbling and rolling, kicked here and there by random feet. The bounty hunter's body falls to the ground.

MACE WINDU runs to the center of the arena and fights back-to-back with OBI-WAN, as they swipe and mangle DROIDS.

OBI-WAN
Someone's got to - shut down -
these droids.

MACE WINDU
Don't worry! It's being - taken
care of!

EXT. GEONOSIS, FEDERATION STARSHIP - DAY
KI-ADI-MUNDI leads a raiding party of about TWENTY JEDI through the lines of parked Battle Starships. They cut a swath through masses of DROIDS until they arrive at the Command Starship. Some JEDI fall. The rest cut their way up the ramps and into the Command Ship.

INT. COMMAND FEDERATION STARSHIP, CORRIDORS - DAY
KI-ADI-MUNDI and teh surviving JEDI fight their way through the corridors of the Command Ship, deflecting laser bolts, slicing DROIDS.

INT. COMMAND FEDERATION STARSHIP, CONTROL BRIDGE - DAY
THEY burst onto the bridge and chop down the COMMAND DROIDS. The NEIMOIDIANS flee in all directions. KE-ADI-MUNDI leans over the control panel. He locates the illuminated master switch and punches down on it. It goes dark. Instantly, all the DROIDS on the Starship and all the DROIDS in the arena FREEZE!

There is a moment of stunned silence, then the JEDI CHEER. One the bridge, PLO KOON claps KI-ADI-MUNDI on the back.

PLO KOON
We've done it! Now we have a
chance!

Suddenly, there is a harsh BEEPING SOUND. All the DROIDS on the Starship and all the DROIDS in the arena start fighting again! KI-ADI-MUNDI stares in disbelief and dismay.

KI-ADI-MUNDI
The system's off but they're still
active. That's a new feature. They
are independent of the control
system.

EXT. GEONOSIS, EXECUTION ARENA - DAY
MACE WINDU, OBI-WAN, ANAKIN, PADME and an exhausted group of about TWENTY JEDI stand in the center of the arena surrounded by a ring of BATTLE DROIDS. The bloodied sand around them is strewn with the bodies of DEAD GEONOSIANS, SHATTERED DROIDS and JEDI.

At the foot of some steps, BOBA FETT finds his father's battered helmet. He picks it up.

KI-ADI-MUNDI and the SURVIVORS from the raiding party are herded into the arena by SUPERDROIDS. From the encircling tiers above, THOUSANDS OF BATTLE DROIDS level their weapons menacingly.

In the archducal box, COUNT DOOKU lifts his hand. The DROIDS lower their weapons. The COUNT calls out to the JEDI.

COUNT DOOKU
Master Windu!

Silence.

COUNT DOOKU
(continuing)
You have fought gallantly. Worthy
of recognition in the history
archives of the Jedi Order. Now
it is finished.
(pauses briefly)
Surrender - and your lives will be 
spared.

MACE WINDU
We will not be hostages for you to
barter with Dooku.

COUNT DOOKU
Then, I'm sorry, old friend. You
will have to be destroyed.

The DROIDS raise their weapons. ANAKIN and PADME clasps hands tightly. COUNT DOOKU raises his hand to give the order to fire. PADME looks up suddenlt and whispers to ANAKIN.

PADME
Look!

Above, six Gunships are descending fast through the open area in the arena ceiling. They land in a cluster around the handful of JEDI. CLONE TROOPERS spill out and start firing at the DROIDS. There is a hellstorm of laserfire that bounces off the laser shields created by the Gunships. YODA appears at the door of one of the Gunships.

YODA
Come on - hurry! Hurry!

The SURVIVING JEDI dash to the Gunships and scramble in. MACE WINDU hangs on tight as the Gunship, firing all its weapons, rises out of the arena up and over the topmost rim.

EXT. GEONOSIS, TERRAIN OUTSIDE EXECUTION ARENA - DAY
The massed lines of parked Federation Starships and the DROIDS surrounding the arena, are themselves surrounded by thousands of Republic Starships, disgorging TENS OF THOUSANDS OF CLONE TROOPERS. Beyond, more Republic Starships are landing and spewing out troops.

INT. GUNSHIP NUMBER ONE - DAY
MACE WINDU stares at the incredible sight.

YODA
More battalions to the left.
Encircle them we must, then
divide.

The CLONE TROOPERS open fire with artillery. EXPLOSIONS wreck the parked Battle Starships. CLONE TROOPERS advance, firing at the massed DROIDS. FIGHTER DROIDS fly overhead, exchanging fire with the Gunships and JEDI fighters.

INT. COCKPIT, NABOO STARSHIP - DAY
THREEPIO and ARTOO see flashes outside of the ship, exploding everywhere.

C-3PO
I'm sure I heard something, this
time. Didn't you? It's probably
just a celebration

ARTOO lets out an EXHAUSTED BLEEP.

EXT. BATTLEFIELD, GEONOSIS LANDSCAPE - DAY
Gunship #2 skims the battlefield, firing down, deflecting answering fire from the droids.

INT. GUNSHIP NUMBER TWO - DAY
OBI-WAN, ANAKIN and PADME are at the open sides of the Gunship. CLONES fire down at the DROIDS below.

The Gunship slows, circling over a droid gun-emplacement. It blasts it, but suddenly the Gunship is rocked by a near miss. It lurches violently.

OBI-WAN
Hold on! Look over there...

Through the other side of the Gunship, they see a Geonosian Speeder racing past. In the open cockpit is the unmistakable figure of COUNT DOOKU.

ANAKIN
It's Dooku, go after him!

The PILOT starts to comply, but... there is a HUGE BLASTS, the ship lurches on its side, and PADME tumbles out.

ANAKIN
(continuing)
Padme!!!

ANAKIN stares down in horror as PADME hits thr ground below.

ANAKIN
(continuing; to pilot)
Put the ship down! Down!

OBI-WAN
No! Forget her. We have to go
after Dooku.

ANAKIN
No we're not!! Land this ship!

OBI-WAN
Don't let your personal feelings
get in the way. We've got a job to
do.

Below, PADME hauls herself to her feet and waves for them to go after DOOKU.

ANAKIN
I don't care!.. Go back.

OBI-WAN
Anakin! She's all right! Look.

ANAKIN stares out to see PADME rescued by CLONE TROOPERS.

OBI-WAN
(continuing)
Follow that speeder!

On the ground, PADME looks up at Gunship #2 as it speeds away after Count Dooku. OBI-WAN and ANAKIN follow the speeder to a Geonosian tower. The speeder decsends rapidly; the Gunship follows.

Count Dooku's speeder parks outside the tower; the Gunship parks next to it. OBI-WAN and ANAKIN leap down and run inside the tower.

INT. GEONOSIS, SECRET HANGER TOWER - LATE DAY
COUNT DOOKU throws switches on a control panel. His Interstellar Sail Ship is guarded by a SQUAD OF SUPER BATTLE DROIDS. The doors of the exit-port slide open.

DROID CAPTAIN
Your Excellency!

COUNT DOOKU turns as OBI-WAN and ANAKIN run in through the hanger doors. They draw their lightsabers. The DROIDS raise their weapons.

COUNT DOOKU
That won't be necessary, Captain.
Stand down. And leave them to me.

The DROIDS lower their weapons and back off to the walls. COUNT DOOKU looks at OBI-WAN and ANAKIN with slight amusement.

OBI-WAN
(to Anakin)
We move in together - you slowly
on the...

ANAKIN
I'm taking him now!

OBI-WAN
Anakin, no!

ANAKIN
You'll pay for all the Jedi you've
killed today, Dooku.

ANAKIN charges across the open space at COUNT DOOKU, who smiles faintly, watching him come. ANAKIN raises his lightsaber. At the last moment, COUNT DOOKU thrusts out an arm, and ANAKIN is lifted up, hurled across the room, and slammed into the opposite wall. He slumps to the foot of the wall, semi-conscious. COUNT DOOKU moves toward OBI-WAN

COUNT DOOKU
Kenobi, isn't it? As you can see,
my Jedi powers are far beyond
yours. Now, back down.

OBI-WAN
I don't think so.

OBI-WAN lifts his lightsaber. COUNT DOOKU smiles.

COUNT DOOKU
Ah, but if I must.

COUNT DOOKU draws his lightsaber. He and OBI-WAN start to circle each other.

COUNT DOOKU
(continuing)
I have spent the last ten years
learning to use the power of the
Dark Side. It gives me infinitely
greater power.

OBI-WAN
You will have to prove it.

OBI-WAN comes in fast, swinging at COUNT DOOKU'S head. DOOKU parries the cut easily. As they fight, it quickly becomes clear that DOOKU is the complete swordsman - elegant, graceful, classical - a master of the old style.

COUNT DOOKU
Grand Master Kenobi, you
disappoint me. Yoda holds you in
such high esteem.

COUNT DOOKU parried another cut.

COUNT DOOKU
(continuing)
Surely you can do better...?
(parries)
No, I'm surprised. Has Jedi
swordsmanship degenerated so
quickly, or are you trying to make
fun of me?
(cuts)
Which is it?

COUNT DOOKU thrusts. OBI-WAN steps back quickly, panting for breath.

COUNT DOOKU
(continuing)
come, come, Master Kenobi. Put me
out of my misery.

OBI-WAN takes a deep breath, gets a fresh grip on his lightsaber and comes in again. For a moment, he drives COUNT DOOKU back. Then Dooku's superior skill begins to tell again, and he forces OBI-WAN to retreat.

COUNT DOOKU increases the tempo of his attack. OBI-WAN is pushed to the limit to defend himself. DOOKU presses. His lightsaber flashes.

OBI-WAN is wounded in the shoulder, then the thigh. He stumbles back against the wall, trips, and falls. His lightsaber goes skittering across the floor.

COUNT DOOKU raises his lightsaber. OBI-WAN looks up helplessly. Dooku's lightsaber flashes down and CLASHES against - Anakin's lightsaber! COUNT DOOKU and ANAKIN stare eyeball to eyeball.

COUNT DOOKU
(continuing)
That's brave of you, boy - but
foolish. I would have thought
you'd have learnt your lesson.

ANAKIN
I'm a slow learner.

And ANAKIN charges at COUNT DOOKU. The force of his attack catches the Count slightly off balance. Anakin's lightsaber flashes. COUNT DOOKU draws back, putting a hand to his arm. He takes the hand away and looks at the smear of blood whee Anakin has nicked him.

COUNT DOOKU
You have unusual powers, young
Padawan. But not enought to save
you this time.

ANAKIN
Don't bet on it!

OBI-WAN
Anakin!

OBI-WAN uses the Force to catch his lightsaber and he tosses it to ANAKIN. With TWO LIGHTSABERS, ANAKIN attacks. COUNT DOOKU parries and ripostes. It is no contest. ANAKIN is driven back against the wall. He loses one lightsaber. Finally COUNT DOOKU, in one flashing move, sends Anakin's arm, cut at the elbow, flying still gripping his lightsaber. ANAKIN drops to the ground in agony. COUNT DOOKU draws himself up to deliver the coup de grace.

Suddenly, the great doors slide open. The DROIDS turn fast, raising their weapons. Through the thick smoke, emerges the heroic figure of YODA. He stops on the smoke-filled threashold, FOUR DROIDS lined up on either side of him, guns pointed.

Before the DROIDS can get off a shot, YODA raises his hand, and the DROIDS are flung against the far walls and crash to the floor in heaps of smoking metal.

Silence. COUNT DOOKU steps away from ANAKIN to face the Jedi Grand Master. His lightsaber whirls in a formal salute.

COUNT DOOKU
Master Yoda. At last we shall
know who is the most powerful.

YODA draws a miniature lightsaber out of his cane. He salutes formally.

YODA
Count Dooku. No interest in
contests, do I have.

COUNT DOOKU charges across the space at YODA. He rains down blows upon the tiny figure. YODA doesn't budge an inch. For the first part of the contest, he parries every cut and thrust that Dooku aims. Nothing the great swordsman tries gets through. His energy drains. His strokes become feebler, slower.

YODA attacks! He flies forward. COUNT DOOKU is forced to retreat. Wprds are insufficient to describe the range and skill of Yoda's speed and swordplay. His lightsaber his a humming blur of light.

Count Dooku's lightsaber is sent cartwheeling from his hand. He staggers back, gasping and spent, against the control panel. YODA jumps onto DOOKU'S shoulders, and is about to drive the lightsaber into the top of the Count's head.

YODA
(continuing)
The end for you, Count, this is.

COUNT DOOKU
...Not yet...

COUNT DOOKU raises his arms and knocks YODA off his shoulders and then, with all his might, he uses the Force to pull on one of the cranes in the hanger. It comes crashing down on OBI-WAN and ANAKIN. But in the blink of and eye, YODA is under the crane, holding it up, using the Force. YODA closes his eyes and concentrates.

ANAKIN is unconscious, and OBI0WAN tries toget out from under the crane. The fallen crane trembles and starts to life. Behind it, the sound of the Sail Ship's engines are heard starting up.

YODA concentrates harder. Slowly, the crane rises. The SOUND OF THE ENGINES increases. YODA exerts every scrap of his powers. The crane lifts clear of ANAKIN and is thrown to the ground. DOOKU'S Sail Ship takes off. OBI-WAN and ANAKIN struggle to the exhausted YODA, but it's too late. The Sail Ship rises into the air and flies away. PADM√â and a CLONE CAPTAIN with about TEN TROOPERS appear in the doorway.

PADM√â
Anakin!

PADM√â runs too him and throws her arms around him. ANAKIN is barely able to stand up. The CLONE CAPTAIN marches up to YODA, stops, and salutes smartly.

CLONE CAPTAIN
Resistance is at an end, General.
What are your orders ?

YODA looks at him and sighs.

EXT. CORUSCANT, OLD TOWN - DAWN
COUNT DOOKU'S Interstellar Sail Ship glides through a deserted, burned-out part of Coruscant. COUNT DOOKU manoeuvres the ship into one of the empty buildings and lands.

INT. CORUSCANT, SECRET LANDING PLATFORM - DAWN
The ramp lowers. COUNT DOOKU emerges and walks to where the hooded figure of DARTH SIDIOUS stands waiting. COUNT DOOKU bows.

COUNT DOOKU
The Force is with us, my Master.

DARTH SIDIOUS
Welcome home, Lord Tyranus. You have
done well.

COUNT DOOKU
I bring you good news, my Lord.
The war has begun.

DARTH SIDIOUS
Excellent. 
(smiling)
Everything is going as planned.

EXT. CORUSCANT, JEDI TEMPLE - SUNSET
The beautiful temple basks in the red glow of the setting sun.

INT. JEDI TEMPLE, COUNCIL CHAMBER - SUNSET

MACE WINDU
Where is your apprentice?

OBI-WAN
On his way back to Naboo. He is
escorting Senator Amidala home.

They are standing, looking out through the tall windows at the great plaza below. YODA sits in his chair.

OBI-WAN
(continuing)
I must admit without the clones,
it would not have been a victory.

YODA
Victory? Victory, you say?

OBI-WAN turns and looks at the sad little Jedi sitting in the Council Chamber. Apart from KI-ADI-MUNDI and PLO KOON, who is wounded, the Chamber is empty.

YODA
(continuing)
Not victory, a defeat, it was...
Master Obi-Wan. Begun, the Clone
War has!

EXT. NABOO LAKE RETREAT, LODGE, GARDEN - LATE DAY
In a rose-covered arbor overlooking the sparkling late, ANAKIN and PADME stand before a NABOO HOLY MAN.

THREEPIO and ARTOO stand by, watching, as the HOLY MAN blesses the happy couple and, amid gently falling rose petals, ANAKIN and PADME kiss.

EXT. CORUSCANT, MILITARY STAGING AREA, BALCONY - LATE DAY
PALPATINE, JAR JAR, BAIL ORGANA and the OTHER SENATORS, with TWO ROYAL GUARDS, stand looking down at the square below.

TENS OF THOUSANDS OF CLONE TROOPS are drawn up in a strict formation or move forwards in near files to climb the ramps of the Military Assault Ships.

On the balcony, PALPATINE'S expression is deeply sad. Everyone watches comberly as, in the square, loaded Assault Ships take off. Other land immediately in their place. The sky above is thick with transports. CLONE TROOPS march and board the Ships.

The Great Clone War has begun...

FADE OUT:

THE END

STAR WARS EPISODE 3: REVENGE OF THE SITH SCRIPT

George Lucas


1 EXT. SPACE

A long time ago in a galaxy far, far away.

A vast sea of stars serves as the backdrop for the Main Title, followed by a rollup, which crawls into infinity.

War! The Republic is crumbling under attacks by the ruthless Sith Lord, Count Dooku. There are heroes on both sides. Evil is everywhere.

In a stunning move, the fiendish droid leader, General Grievous, has swept into the Republic capital and kidnapped Chancellor Palpatine, leader of the Galactic Senate.

As the Separatist Droid Army attempts to flee the besieged capital with their valuable hostage, two Jedi Knights lead a desperate mission to rescue the captive Chancellor. . . .

PAN DOWN to reveal a REPUBLIC ATTACK CRUISER. Continue to PAN with the Cruiser as TWO JEDI STARFIGHTERS enter and head toward an enemy Battle Cruiser. TRUCK with the Jedi Fighters as they maneuver in unison, dodging flack and enemy laser fire. R2-D2 is on Anakin's ship. R4-P17 is on Obi-Wan's ship. A giant space battle is revealed as the tiny Jedi ships continue their assault in a synchronous ballet.

2 INT. OBI-WAN'S STARFIGHTER COCKPIT-SPACE

OBI-WAN bounces through the flack with a frown. His ship rocks violently.

3 INT. ANAKINS STARFIGHTER COCKPIT-SPACE

ANAKIN smiles as he blasts a TRADE FEDERATION DROID DROP FIGHTER.

ANAKIN: There isn't a droid made that can out fly you, Master, and no other way to get to the Chancellor . . .

OBI-WAN: Look out, four droids inbound . . .

4 EXT. CORUSCANT-SPACE BATTLE

The TWO JEDI FIGHTERS swerve in unison as FOUR TRADE FEDERATION DROID DROP FIGHTERS attack. After several clever moves by the Jedi, two of the FEDERATION DROID DROP FIGHTERS collide with each other in a ball of flame.

5 INT. OBI-WAN'S STARFIGHTER COCKPIT-SPACE

OBI-WAN struggles to maintain control of his ship.

OBI-WAN: We've got to split them up.

ANAKIN: Break left, fly through the guns on that tower.

OBI-WAN flies to the left of a huge tower on a REPUBLIC CRUISER. The TWO DROID DROP FIGHTERS follow.

OBI-WAN: Easy for you to say . . . why am I always the bait?

ANAKIN: Don't worry. I'm coming around behind you.

OBI-WAN deftly maneuvers around a large Starship's superstructure, but the TWO DROID FIGHTERS stay on his tail, BLASTING him with intense laser fire.

OBI-WAN: Anakin, they're all over me!

ANAKIN: Dead ahead! Closing . . . lock onto him, Artoo . . .

ARTOO BEEPS his reply as ANAKIN swoops in for the kill. ANAKIN BLASTS one of the DROID DROP FIGHTERS. It EXPLODES.

ANAKIN: (continuing, laughs) We got him, Artoo!

ANAKIN BLASTS away at the second DROID DROP FIGHTER as ARTOO BEEPS an angry warning.

ANAKIN: I copy, Artoo.

OBI-WAN: I'm going down on the deck.

ANAKIN: Good idea ... I need some room to maneuver.

OBI-WAN dives toward the surface of one of the larger TRADE FEDERATION BATTLESHIPS and is forced to fly through a maelstrom of laser flack. He skims the surface, followed by the DROID DROP FIGHTER, which is followed by ANAKIN.

ANAKIN: (continuing) Cut right. Do you hear me?! Cut right. Don't let him get a handle on you. Come on, Artoo, lock on! Lock on!

ARTOO BEEPS. The crosshairs merge on the DROID DROP FIGHTER.

OBI-WAN: Hurry up! I don't like this!

OBI-WAN flies through a narrow gap between two towers on a Battleship. The DROID DROP FIGHTER hits one of Obi-Wan's wings with a laser blast, and parts of the ship go flying around Obi-Wan's Astro Droid, ARFOUR.

OBI-WAN: (continuing) Ouch!

R-4 BEEPS a blue streak.

OBI-WAN: (continuing) Don't even try to fix it, Arfour. I've shut it down.

ANAKIN: We're locked on ... we've got him . . .

ANAKIN drops in behind the DROID DROP FIGHTER and blows him apart. ARTOO SQUEALS with delight.

ANAKIN: (continuing) Yeah! We got him . . . good going, Artoo.

OBI-WAN: Next time you're the bait . . . Now let's find the Command Ship and get on with it ...

R-4 BEEPS a blue streak.

ANAKIN: Lock onto them, Artoo. Master, General Grievous's ship is directly ahead.

ARTOO BEEPS a reply, and it reads out in Anakin's cockpit.

ANAKIN: (continuing) The one crawling with vulture droids.

6 INT. OBI-WAN'S STARFIGHTER COCKPIT-SPACE

OBI-WAN: I see it. Oh, this is going to be easy.

Ahead is a TRADE FEDERATION CRUISER with batlike DROID VULTURE FIGHTERS stalking around on the hull. The VULTURE FIGHTERS transform into flight configuration, lift off the CRUISER, and attack the JEDI STARFIGHTERS.

ANAKIN: Come on, Master.

OBI-WAN: Not this time. There's too much at stake. We need help. Odd Ball, do you copy?

ODD BALL: (OS) Copy, Red Leader.

OBI-WAN: Mark my position and form your squad up behind me . . .

7 INT. ODD BALL'S FIGHTER COCKPIT-SPACE

ODD BALL: We're on your tail, General Kenobi. Set S-foils in attack position.

The protective ray shield lowers on the main hangar of the TRADE FEDERATION CRUISER, and six new DROID TRI-FIGHTERS emerge and join the DROID VULTURE FIGHTERS heading toward the Jedi. The JEDI STARFIGHTERS extend the stability foils on the ends of their wings.

8 INT. ANAKIN'S FIGHTER COCKPIT-SPACE

ANAKIN: This is where the fun begins. Ten Vulture Droids straight ahead, coming down the left side.

ARTOO BEEPS a worried message.

OBI-WAN: Add five Tri-fighters on the right . . .

ANAKIN: I'm going head to head. See you.

OBI-WAN: Take it easy, Anakin.

Four Clone Fighters move into formation behind the Jedi.

ODD BALL: I'm on your right, Red Leader.

ANAKIN: Incoming!!

ARTOO SQUEALS as five DROID TRI-FIGHTERS pass by at high speed on the right.

OBI-WAN: Five more on the right!

Four more VULTURE DROID FIGHTERS pass at high speed from the left. All hell breaks loose. OBI-WAN and ANAKIN continue to fly in unison, backing up each other. ARTOO SQUEALS.

ANAKIN: Here we go.

The Jedi ships split up and make a quick loop around the DROID TRI-FIGHTERS, ending up behind them. BLASTING away. The DROID TRI-FIGHTERS EXPLODE.

OBI-WAN: I'm going high and right.

ANAKIN: Hang on. There are four more of them.

OBI-WAN: Stay with me . . . swing back and right . . . help me engage. Back off ... Let them pass between us.

ANAKIN: I'm coming around. I'm coming around on your tail.

OBI-WAN: All right, engage . . . and hurry. These droids are all over me like a rash.

In one incredible move, ANAKIN swings in behind the DROID TRI-FIGHTERS, blowing them away one by one until there is only one left. ARTOO CHIRPS.

ARTOO lets out a HOWL as ANAKIN accelerates past the last DROID TRI-FIGHTER, slams on his brakes, flips the Fighter around, and BLASTS the Fighter from the front. ARTOO BEEPS frantically as they fly through the debris of the destroyed ships. ANAKIN looks behind him.

ANAKIN: How many back there. Artoo? (Artoo beeps) Three . . . (continuing) Four . . . that's not good.

OBI-WAN: Anakin, you have four on your tail.

ANAKIN: I know. I know!

OBI-WAN: Four more closing from your left.

ANAKIN: I know. I know!

OBI-WAN: Break right and go high.

ANAKIN: I'm going low and left.

Obi-Wan shakes his head.

OBI-WAN: (to himself) He still has much to learn.

ANAKIN swoops low and skims across a TRADE FEDERATION BATTLESHIP, dodging flack as ARTOO bounces along, trying to get out a sentence.

ANAKIN: Hang on, Artoo. Obi-Wan, do you copy? I'm going to pull them through the needle . . .

OBI-WAN: Too dangerous. First Jedi rule: "Survive."

ANAKIN: Sorry, no choice. Come down here and thin them out a little.

OBI-WAN drops in behind the DROID VULTURE FIGHTERS chasing Anakin. ARFOUR BEEPS to OBI-WAN.

OBI-WAN: Just keep me steady . . . hold on ... not yet. . . now break left.

OBI-WAN fires as he swings across the back of the VULTURE DROIDS, BLASTING four of them away. ANAKIN heads for a trench along the surface of one of the Trade Federation Battleships. He flies into the trench, which ends in a conning tower with a small slit between two main struts.

OBI-WAN: (continuing) You'll never get through there, Anakin. It's too tight.

ARTOO BEEPS nervously.

ANAKIN: Easy, Artoo . . . we've done this before.

OBI-WAN: Use the Force, think yourself through, the ship will follow.

ARTOO SQUEALS in a panic. On the view screen Artoo's squeal reads out, "WE'RE NOT GOING TO MAKE IT."

ANAKIN: Wrong thought, Artoo.

ANAKIN slips through the narrow gap. The trailing VULTURE DROID FIGHTERS CRASH.

ANAKIN: (continuing) I'm through.

OBI-WAN continues to fire on the VULTURE DROID FIGHTERS, driving them into the EXPLOSION.
A CLONE fighter is hit and explodes, spewing debris. The CLONE PILOT spins off into space.
Finally, OBI-WAN peels off and swings around, pulling up alongside ANAKIN. CLONE FIGHT SQUAD SEVEN battles the DROIDS.

ODD BALL: There are too many of them.

CLONE PILOT 2: I'm on your wing. Break left. Break left. They're all over me. Get them off my . . .

ANAKIN: I'm going to go help them out!

OBI-WAN: No, no! They are doing their job so we can do ours. Head for the Command Ship!

Another CLONE fighter is hit, bursts into flames, and spins off into space. A VULTURE DROID FIGHTER raises its head to locate its target and fires missiles at them.

ANAKIN: Missiles! Pull up!

ANAKIN and OBI-WAN break right and left, and the missiles follow them. ANAKIN does a barrel roll spin, causing the missiles following him to collide and EXPLODE. Two missiles continue to chase OBI-WAN. He banks sharply to the right, then to the left, causing one of the missiles to overshoot.

OBI-WAN: They overshot us . . .

The second missile streaks next to Obi-Wan‚Äôs Fighter and EXPLODES. Obi-Wan's ship rocks, and R-4, SCREAMS as the Starfighter rips through the explosion. Debris flies all around them.

ANAKIN: They're coming around!

OBI-WAN: All right, Arfour. No, no. Nothing too fancy.

ANAKIN: Surge all power units. Artoo! Stand by the reverse thrusters.

ANAKIN spins his starfighter. The missiles spin and collide.

ANAKIN: We got 'em. Artoo!

Two missiles continue to track Obi-Wan.

OBI-WAN: Flying is for droids.

Suddenly, OBI-WAN shudders, and his ship starts to plummet toward the surface of the Trade Federation Cruiser. The trailing missiles fly into what looks like debris, and detonate. Five silver balls fly out of the debris and attach themselves to the ship. The balls pop open, revealing SMALL BUZZDROIDS that begin to crawl across the surface like spiders.

OBI-WAN: (continuing) I'm hit! Anakin?

ANAKIN: I see them . . . Buzz Droids.

The BUZZ DROIDS crawl across Obi-Wan's ship and start to tear it apart. SPARKS ERUPT where the BUZZ DROIDS break into the wiring. One of the BUZZ DROIDS goes after ARFOUR.

OBI-WAN: Arfour, be careful. You have one . . .

ARFOUR's head gets ripped off and flies away.

OBI-WAN: Oh dear. They're shutting down all the controls.

ANAKIN: Move to the right so I can get a clear shot at them.

OBI-WAN: The mission. Get to the Command Ship. Get the Chancellor! I'm running out of tricks here.

ANAKIN moves into position just off Obi-Wan's left side and angles his ship so his guns are pointing at the DROIDS crawling over Obi-Wan‚Äôs Starfighter. ANAKIN fires and vaporizes the TWO BUZZ DROIDS, along with the left wing of Obi-Wan's ship.

OBI-WAN: (continuing) In the name of ...

ANAKIN: Steady . . . steady . . .

OBI-WAN: Anakin, hold your fire . . . hold your fire. You're not helping here.

ANAKIN: I agree, bad idea. Swing right . . . ease over . . . steady . . .

OBI-WAN: Wait . . . wait . . . I can't see a thing! My cockpit's fogging. They're all over me, Anakin.

ANAKIN: Move to the right.

OBI-WAN: Hold on, Anakin. You're going to get us both killed! Get out of here. There's nothing more you can do.

ANAKIN: I'm not leaving without you, Master.

ANAKIN moves his ship next to OBI-WAN's and tries to physically knock the BUZZ DROIDS off. There are five left. He manages to get one off, but badly dents OBI-WAN's ship in the process. One of the BUZZ DROIDS tears apiece off of the front of Obi-Wan's ship. Flames burst out, and more smoke billows out, obscuring the Jedi's view.

ANAKIN knocks off three of the BUZZ DROIDS and the fourth crawls out onto Anakin's ship and starts attacking ARTOO. ARTOO fights the BUZZ DROID.

OBI-WAN: Blast it ... I can't see . . . my controls are gone.

ANAKIN: Get 'em, Artoo. Watch out!

OBI-WAN: Artoo, hit the buzz droid's center eye.

ARTOO extends an arm and aims a stream of electricity at the swerving BUZZ DROID. The BUZZ DROID is hit squarely in the eye and falls off the ship.

ANAKIN: Yeah, you got him!

OBI-WAN: Great, Artoo.

ANAKIN: Stay on my wing . . . the General's Command Ship is dead ahead. Easy . . . pull up ... Head for the hangar.

OBI-WAN: Have you noticed the shields are still up?

ANAKIN: Oh?!? Sorry, Master.

ANAKIN streaks ahead of OBI-WAN's disintegrating Jedi Fighter and blasts the shield generator. It SPARKS and EXPLODES.

OBI-WAN: Oh, I have a bad feeling about this.

9 INT. MAIN HANGAR-TRADE FEDERATION CRUISER

The shield door drops away, and OBI-WAN crashes on the deck of the hangar bay, engulfed in a FANTAIL OF SPARKS. A set of blast doors starts SLAMMING shut across the hangar opening, as material is sucked into space.

ANAKIN maneuvers around the oncoming junk and flies into the hangar just as the blast doors SLAM shut.
OBI-WAN ignites his light saber and cuts his way out of the cockpit. He jumps dear just as his ship EXPLODES. BATTLE DROIDS rush at him from all directions.

ANAKIN jumps out of his ship and cuts his way through the BATTLE DROIDS to where OBI-WAN is fighting. ARTOO pops out of the ship and follows ANAKIN.

OBI-WAN: Artoo, locate the Chancellor.

ANAKIN: Tap into the ship's computers.

They cut down the last of the droids and follow ARTOO over to a computer wall socket. The two JEDI fight off FOUR MORE DROIDS as ARTOO tries to find the Chancellor. Finally, a HOLOGRAM of the Trade Federation ship appears.

OBI-WAN: The Chancellor's signal is coming from right there. The observation platform at the top of that spire.

ANAKIN: I sense Count Dooku . . .

OBI-WAN: I sense a trap.

ANAKIN: Next move?

OBI-WAN: Spring the trap.

The JEDI start to leave; ARTOO follows. The JEDI stop and turn to ARTOO.

ANAKIN: Artoo, go back. I need you to stay with the ship.

OBI-WAN: Here, take this, and wait for orders.

OBI-WAN tosses the comlink to ARTOO.

10 INT. BRIDGE-TRADE FEDERATION CRUISER

GENERAL GRIEVOUS enters the bridge of the TRADE FEDERATION cruiser followed by his TWO BODYGUARDS. He walks to the front of the bridge and stands in front of the NEIMOIDIAN CAPTAIN.

GENERAL GRIEVOUS: What's the situation, Captain?

CAPTAIN: TWO Jedi have landed in the main hangar bay.

GENERAL GRIEVOUS: Just as Count Dooku predicted.

11 INT. HANGAR-TRADE FEDERATION CRUISER

ANAKIN and OBI-WAN head for the elevator. A door opens in the hallway and two of GENERAL GRIEVOUS's BODYGUARDS confront the JEDI.

BODYGUARD I: General Kenobi, Anakin Skywalker. We've been waiting for you.

OBI-WAN: We are here to relieve you of Chancellor Palpatine, not join him.

As a dozen more droids join the group, the JEDI ignite their lightsabers and stand back-to-back.

OBI-WAN: Anakin. . .

ANAKIN: Ready.

ANAKIN and OBI-WAN use their lightsabers and cut a large circle in the floor.

12 INT. GENERATOR ROOM-TRADE FEDERATION CRUISER

The TWO JEDI cut their way down several floors into a large generator room. Huge EXPLOSIONS outside the ship have caused several large pipes overhead to break, and fluid is spewing everywhere. The Jedi get up and turn off their light sabers. ANAKIN dips his hand into the fluid and sniffs it.

OBI-WAN: . . . fuel. The slightest charge from our sabers will send this ship into oblivion. That's why they've stopped shooting.

ANAKIN: Well then, we're safe for the time being.

OBI-WAN: Your idea of safe is not the same as mine.

They run, EXPLOSIONS rattle the ship, and pipes continue to burst around them, spilling more fuel into the hallway. At the far end, SIX SUPER BATTLE DROIDS drop into the fuel. The SOUNDS OF SHIELD DOORS CLOSING AND LOCKING ECHO throughout the hallway. They pass several large power generators, which are topped with SPARKING excess power dischargers.

ANAKIN: They're sealing this section off.

OBI-WAN: Six droids coming our way!

The last of the DOORS CAN BE HEARD CLOSING in the distance.

ANAKIN: Keep moving. There must be vents . . . This way.

They move along a wall. ANAKIN climbs up the side to a small vent. The fuel gets closer to the SPARKING dischargers.

OBI-WAN: We'll never get through that. It's too small!

They move toward a second vent. OBI-WAN is swimming in the fuel as it reaches to within a couple yards of the ceiling. ANAKIN feels along the ceiling and finds another smaller vent. He closes his eyes and tries to sense an opening, then he moves on. OBI-WAN is forced into hand-to-hand combat with one of the SUPER BATTLE DROIDS. It pulls the Jedi under the fuel. Just before he is about to drown, OBI-WAN disables the SUPER BATTLE DROID by pushing him into an exhaust pipe.

The fuel is up to the Jedi's chins. ANAKIN finds a very, very small metal grate, then pounds on it until the tiny grate breaks loose.

ANAKIN: I found our escape vent.

OBI-WAN: Anakin, this is no time for jokes. We're in serious trouble here.

ANAKIN: Only in your mind. My Master. Look, no structure. . . .

ANAKIN grabs the side of the tiny hole and gives it a big yank, ripping a large panel loose revealing a "man-sized" work shaft. They scramble through it as the DROIDS swim closer.

13 INT. VENT SHAFT-TRADE FEDERATION CRUISER

The TWO JEDI pull themselves through the narrow vent shaft until they reach a small hatch in the side of the tube.

ANAKIN: Here's a way out.

As the SUPER BATTLE DROIDS reach the opening in the ceiling and the fuel gets to within a few feet of the power generator sparks, the JEDI work the keyboard on the pressure lock, opening the latch.

14 INT. SMALL PASSAGEWAY-TRADE FEDERATION CRUISER

The TWO JEDI climb into a small passageway and slam the hatch shut. They make their way through the ever-shrinking shaft until they reach the end.

15 INT. HALLWAY-TRADE FEDERATION CRUISER

A hatch opens in one of the main hallways of the Trade Federation Cruiser, and the JEDI squeeze out, SLAMMING the hatch. Behind them, ANAKIN seals the hatch with his laser sword.

OBI-WAN: That won't hold when the fuel hits those power dischargers.

ANAKIN: The blast will break the hull. This side's pressurized.

OBI-WAN: You still have much to learn, Anakin.

16 INT. VENT SHAFT-TRADE FEDERATION CRUISER

The SUPER BATTLE DROIDS climb up the vent shaft. SUPER BATTLE DROID R77 and SEVERAL OTHER DROIDS wait in the generator room as the fuel continues to rise toward the power discharger.

SUPER BATTLE DROID R77: I have a bad feeling about this.

17 INT. GENERATOR ROOM-TRADE FEDERATION CRUISER

The fuel hits the SPARKING power discharger, and there is a HUGE EXPLOSION.

18 EXT. TRADE FEDERATION CRUISER-BATTLE

A GREAT EXPLOSION and a flaming gas cloud spray out of the side of the Federation Cruiser.

19 INT. HALLWAY-TRADE FEDERATION CRUISER

A large bulge appears in the wall around the sealed hatch as the EXPLOSION hits. OBI-WAN jumps back, then stands amazed.

OBI-WAN: All right, you win. I have much to learn. Let's go!

ANAKIN grins at OBI-WAN, and they run down the hallway.

20 INT. WIDE HALLWAY-TRADE FEDERATION CRUISER

The two JEDI wait for an elevator to arrive. They turn around and see they are face to face with THREE DESTROYER DROIDS. The DROIDS start blasting away. Anakin deflects the bolts. OBI-WAN frantically pushes the elevator button several more times.

ANAKIN: Destroyers!!

Finally the door opens, and they rush inside under a hail of laser bolts. The elevator door slides shut. The JEDI turn to see BATTLE DROIDS standing behind them.

BATTLE DROID: Drop your weapons! I said drop 'em.

The JEDI activate their light sabers and destroy all the BATTLE DROIDS.

21 INT HANGAR-TRADE FEDERATION CRUISER

R2-D2 notices two SUPER BATTLE DROIDS entering the hangar. He moves and hides behind a Jedi Starfighter.

22 INT. ELEVATOR-TRADE FEDERATION CRUISER

The elevator begins to move and screeches to a stop.

OBI-WAN: Did you press the stop button?

ANAKIN: No, did you?

OBI-WAN: No!

ANAKIN: Well, there's more than one way out of here.

ANAKIN ignites his laser sword.

OBI-WAN: We don't want to get out, we want to get moving. Artoo . . . Artoo. Do you copy? Activate elevator . . . (looks at control panel) . . . 31174 . . .

ANAKIN cuts a hole in the elevator ceiling.

23 INT MAIN HANGAR-TRADE FEDERATION CRUISER

TWO SUPER BATTLE DROIDS are inspecting the Jedi starfighters. They overhear Obi-Wan's voice over the comlink and are distracted.

SUPER BATTLE DROID 1: What's that?

SUPER BATTLE DROID 2: Get back to work. It's nothing.

24 INT. ELEVATOR-TRADE FEDERATION CRUISER

OBI-WAN: Artoo?

ANAKIN climbs through the hole in the ceiling of the elevator.

OBI-WAN: (continuing) Always on the move.

OBI-WAN continues to talk on the comlink. Artoo quietly beeps a reply.

25 INT MAIN HANGAR-TRADE FEDERATION CRUISER

ARTOO tries to muffle the comlink as the TWO SUPER BATTLE DROIDS try to figure out where the voices are coming from. ARTOO extends an arm and plugs into a computer interface.

OBI-WAN: (OS) Artoo, switch on the comlink. Artoo, do you hear me? Artoo, we gave you a job to do! Artoo.

26 INT. ELEVATOR SHAFT-TRADE FEDERATION CRUISER

Suddenly, the elevator plummets down the shaft. ANAKIN quickly jumps and grabs onto the hallway entry door. He watches as the elevator recedes down the shaft and disappears. ANAKIN struggles to keep his grip on the closed door as SPARKING wires rain down on him.

27 INT. ELEVATOR-TRADE FEDERATION CRUISER

The elevator starts to descend rapidly.

OBI-WAN: Stop, stop! Artoo, we need to be going up.

28 INT. ELEVATOR SHAFT-TRADE FEDERATION CRUISER

Anakin struggles to hang on to the narrow edge of the elevator shaft. The door to the elevator shaft is pried open, and TWO BATTLE DROIDS appear in the doorway and look down at ANAKIN. They point their guns at him.

DROID 1: Hands up, Jedi! Don't move.

DROID 2: Roger, roger.

29 INT. MAIN HANGAR-TRADE FEDERATION CRUISER

The TWO SUPER BATTLE DROIDS overhear OBI-WAN's comlink messages to ARTOO.

SUPER BATTLE DROID 1: There it is again.

OBI-WAN: (OS) Artoo, do you copy? Artoo, do you hear me? Artoo, we need to be going up, not down.

30 INT. ELEVATOR-TRADE FEDERATION CRUISER

The elevator races down as OBI-WAN holds on.

OBI-WAN: Stop. Artoo! We need to go up! Stop, stop!

The elevator stops with a jolt. OBI-WAN falls to the floor.

31 INT. MAIN HANGAR-TRADE FEDERATION CRUISER

The TWO SUPER BATTLE DROIDS see ARTOO and walk toward the little droid.

SUPER BATTLE DROID 1: Hey you!

ARTOO plugs into the interface again and the elevator shoots up.

32 INT. ELEVATOR-TRADE FEDERATION CRUISER

OBI-WAN stands up after having fallen in the elevator.

OBI-WAN: Now, that's better . . .

33 INT. MAIN HANGAR-TRADE FEDERATION CRUISER

ARTOO is held up by TWO SUPER BATTLE DROIDS, who chuckle as the little Astro Droid curses and swings at them.

SUPER BATTLE DROID 1: You stupid little astro droid!

34 INT. ELEVATOR SHAFT-TRADE FEDERATION CRUISER

ANAKIN looks down and sees the elevator heading toward him at a high rate of speed. He looks at the BATTLE DROIDS leaning over him with their guns pointed at him. He calculates for a moment, then gives himself a push and flips himself up into the elevator shaft.

Before ANAKIN can arc into a descent down the shaft, the elevator races up through the shaft, cutting the DROIDS in two. ANAKIN lands on the elevator and quickly drops back through the hole in the ceiling. OBI-WAN is startled and ignites his lightsaber.

OBI-WAN: Oh, it's you . . .

35 INT. MAIN HANGAR-TRADE FEDERATION CRUISER

ARTOO activates his oil hose and sprays the SUPER BATTLE DROIDS. The SUPER BATTLE DROIDS slip on the oil.

36 INT. ELEVATOR SHAFT-TRADE FEDERATION CRUISER

ANAKIN: What was that all about?

OBI-WAN: Well, Artoo has been . . .

ANAKIN: No loose wire jokes . . . He's doing the best he can.

OBI-WAN: Did I say anything?

ANAKIN: He's trying!

OBI-WAN: I didn't say anything!

37 INT. MAIN HANGAR-TRADE FEDERATION CRUISER

ARTOO ignites his arm rockets and shoots out of their grip, spraying them both with oil and setting them on fire. The SUPER BATTLE DROIDS slip and slide until they fall, smoldering. ARTOO rolls away.

38 INT. GENERAL'S QUARTER'S-TRADE FEDERATION CRUISER

The elevator door opens and the TWO JEDI carefully make their way into the main room of the General's Quarters.
At the far end sits SUPREME CHANCELLOR PALPATINE. ANAKIN and OBI-WAN move toward the CHANCELLOR.
As they get closer to PALPATINE, they see a very distressed look on the Chancellor's face.

OBI-WAN: (bows) Chancellor.

ANAKIN: Are you all right?

PALPATINE: (quietly) Count Dooku.

PALPATINE makes a small gesture with his hand. OBI-WAN and ANAKIN turn around. The elevator DOORS CAN BE HEARD OPENING AND CLOSING as COUNT DOOKU strides into the room. He is above the Jedi, standing on a balcony, with two SUPER BATTLE DROIDS. The Jedi turn to see him. He looks down on the Jedi.

OBI-WAN: (quietly to Anakin) This time we will do it together.

ANAKIN: I was about to say that.

COUNT DOOKU jumps down to the main level.

PALPATINE: Get help! You're no match for him. He's a Sith Lord.

OBI-WAN: Chancellor Palpatine, Sith Lords are our specialty.

OBI-WAN and ANAKIN throw off their cloaks and ignite their lightsabers.

COUNT DOOKU: Your swords, please, Master Jedi. We don't want to make a mess of things in front of the Chancellor.

OBI-WAN and ANAKIN move toward DOOKU.

OBI-WAN: You won't get away this time, Dooku.

OBI-WAN and ANAKIN charge COUNT DOOKU. A great sword fight ensues.

COUNT DOOKU: I've been looking forward to this.

ANAKIN: My powers have doubled since the last time we met, Count.

COUNT DOOKU: Good. Twice the pride, double the fall.

DOOKU lunges at the JEDI and they fall back . . .

COUNT DOOKU: (continuing) Your moves are clumsy, Kenobi . . . too predictable. You'll have to do better.

As the battle proceeds, OBI-WAN and COUNT DOOKU are tired. ANAKIN is stronger as he becomes angry. ANAKIN continues to drive the attack on DOOKU. COUNT DOOKU throws OBI-WAN back using the Force.
ANAKIN and COUNT DOOKU move up the stairs. As they reach the upper landing of the General's Quarters, ANAKIN leaps over COUNT DOOKU. OBI-WAN reaches the top of the stairs, destroying TWO SUPER BATTLE DROIDS. COUNT DOOKU holds OBI-WAN in the air using the Force as he turns and kicks ANAKIN out of frame. OBI-WAN is choking.
ANAKIN hits the archway.
DOOKU sends OBI-WAN flying. The Jedi tumbles to the lower level unconscious. COUNT DOOKU spins around again and, using the Force, causes a section of the balcony to drop onto OBI-WAN. ANAKIN spins and kicks COUNT DOOKU, sending him over the balcony. ANAKIN Jumps, following him down to the main floor. COUNT DOOKU and ANAKIN continue the fight.

COUNT DOOKU: (continuing) I sense great fear in you, Skywalker. You have hate, you have anger, but you don‚Äôt use them.

Anakin regains his composure and attacks COUNT DOOKU as the Dark Lord continues his spin to meet him head on. Their fighting becomes even more intense.
Anakin attacks COUNT DOOKU with a new ferociousness.

39 INT. GENERAL'S QUARTERS-TRADE FEDERATION CRUISER

Anakin and Dooku continue their fight. It is intense! Finally, in one last energized charge, ANAKIN cuts off COUNT DOOKU's hands. The Jedi catches the lightsaber as it drops from the severed Sith Lord's hand. COUNT DOOKU stumbles to the floor as ANAKIN puts the two lightsabers to his neck. PALPATINE is grinning as he watches COUNT DOOKU's defeat.

PALPATINE: Good, Anakin, good. I knew you could do it. Kill him. Kill him now!

ANAKIN: I shouldn't . . .

PALPATINE: Do it!!

ANAKIN cuts off COUNT DOOKU's head. A huge EXPLOSION somewhere deep in the ship rattles everything.

ANAKIN: ... I couldn't stop myself.

PALPATINE: You did well, Anakin. He was too dangerous to be kept alive.

ANAKIN drops COUNT DOOKU's lightsaber, moving to PALPATINE.

ANAKIN: Yes, but he was an unarmed prisoner.

ANAKIN raises his hands toward PALPATINE, who is strapped in the Admiral's Chair. The Chancellor's restraints pop loose.

ANAKIN: (continuing) I shouldn't have done that, Chancellor. It's not the Jedi way.

PALPATINE stands up, rubbing his wrists.

PALPATINE: It is only natural. He cut off your arm, and you wanted revenge. It wasn't the first time, Anakin. Remember what you told me about your mother and the Sand People. Now, we must leave before more security droids arrive.

The ship begins to list to one side. ANAKIN rushes over to OBI-WAN, lifts the control console from on top of him, and pulls him free. He kneels down and checks out his unconscious friend. PALPATINE heads for the elevators.

PALPATINE: (continuing) Anakin, there is no time. We must get off the ship before it's too late.

ANAKIN: He seems to be all right. No broken bones, breathing's all right.

PALPATINE: Leave him, or we'll never make it.

ANAKIN: His fate will be the same as ours.

ANAKIN picks up OBI-WAN, slings him over his shoulder, and heads for the elevators.

40 INT. BRIDGE-TRADE FEDERATION CRUISER

GENERAL GRIEVOUS: Prepare for attack.

PILOT: All batteries fire! Fire!

41 INT. BATTLESTATIONS-REPUBLIC CRUISER

Clone gunners fire on the Trade Federation cruiser and take fire in return. Gun emplacements are destroyed. Clone troopers go flying.

42 INT. ELEVATOR LOBBY-GENERAL'S QUARTERS-TRADE FEDERATION CRUISER

ANAKIN carries OBI-WAN to the elevator doors and hits the button. PALPATINE joins him.

ANAKIN: The elevator's not working, (into his comlink) Artoo . . .

ARTOO BEEPS a response to ANAKIN.

ANAKIN: (continuing) . . . Activate Elevator 3224.

Suddenly the ship shifts to its side as the elevator doors open. PALPATINE is thrown to the ground. ANAKIN jumps to the door frame of the elevator. ANAKIN looks into the elevator shaft.

ANAKIN: (continuing) Artoo ... do you copy? Artoo, come in!

43 INT. BRIDGE-TRADE FEDERATION CRUISER

Windows are blown out, droids and equipment are sucked into space.

PILOT: Reverse stabilizers.

44 INT. MAIN HANGAR-TRADE FEDERATION CRUISER

As the ship rolls, spacecraft and equipment CRASH from one side of the ship to the other.
Several objects break through the metal blast doors, causing objects to be sucked into space. ARTOO starts to slide toward one of the small holes.

45 INT. ELEVATOR LOBBY-GENERAL'S QUARTERS-TRADE FEDERATION CRUISER

As the elevator shaft rotates, it has become a long hallway.
ANAKIN clings to the doorframe with OBI-WAN on his shoulder, as the Chancellor struggles to join him.

46 INT. MAIN HANGAR-TRADE FEDERATION CRUISER

ARTOO continues to skid and slide toward open space. He swerves around boxes and wrecked fighters. One of the BATTLE DROIDS stumbles and is consumed by the electronic shield in a zap. ARTOO BEEPS a reply as he dodges the laser blasts of the BATTLE DROIDS. One bolt hits very near him, and he SCREAMS in terror.

47 INT. BRIDGE-TRADE FEDERATION CRUISER

PILOT: Magnetize! Magnetize!

48 INT. MAIN HANGAR-TRADE FEDERATION CRUISER

ARTOO is about to be overtaken by a starfighter sliding behind him. He falls into a heap of broken battle droid parts and the fighter bounces over him.

49 EXT. SPACE-CORUSCANT

The TRADE FEDERATION CRUISER heads straight down toward the planet.

50 INT. ELEVATOR LOBBY-GENERAL'S QUARTERS-TRADE FEDERATION CRUISER

ANAKIN jumps into the horizontal elevator shaft with OBI-WAN still on his shoulder.

ANAKIN: We can't wait. Come on, we have to be fast.

PALPATINE climbs into the elevator shaft also. They start running. The ship begins to roll again, and the Jedi and the Chancellor are forced to jump from one side of the elevator to the other.

51 INT. BRIDGE-TRADE FEDERATION CRUISER

GENERAL GRIEVOUS: Fire the emergency booster engines.

PILOT: Leveling out, sir.

52 INT. ELEVATOR SHAFT ON SIDE-TRADE FEDERATION CRUISER

ANAKIN still carrying OBI-WAN on his back, and PALPATINE run down the elevator shaft as it starts to move upright. ANAKIN cuts a control box on one of the doors, but before the doors can open, the ship moves to an angle, causing ANAKIN and PALPATINE to start sliding down the shaft. ANAKIN grabs some wires in the control box with one hand. PALPATINE grabs onto the Jedi's leg. As the ship rights itself, they are left hanging in the bottomless elevator shaft.

53 INT. ELEVATOR SHAFT, VERTICAL-TRADE FEDERATION CRUISER

ANAKIN, OBI-WAN, and PALPATINE hang precariously on the side of the bottomless elevator shaft. OBI-WAN regains consciousness and tries to look around.

ANAKIN: Easy. . . . We're in a bit of a situation.

OBI-WAN: Did I miss something?

OBI-WAN looks down and sees PALPATINE and the bottomless pit. They hear ARTOO BEEPING on Obi-Wan's comlink. The ship begins to roll, causing the vertical shaft to move into a forty-five-degree angle. They hear the elevator brakes release and look up to see the elevator heading toward them.

ANAKINN: Hold on.

OBI-WAN: What is that?

OBI-WAN and ANAKIN look up to watch the elevator approach them at high speed, then OBI-WAN turns to ANAKIN.

OBI-WAN: (continuing) Oops.

ANAKIN: Artoo, Artoo, shut down the elevator!

OBI-WAN: Too late! Jump!

They fall about three hundred feet before the tilt of the ship catches up with them, and they hit the side of the shaft and slide at great speed just ahead of the elevator. The shaft continues to rotate until it is completely horizontal.
ANAKIN and OBI-WAN take out and throw grappling hooks. The hooks catch and they continue to fall. All the doors in the elevator shaft open up, and the group swings through the open door into a hallway. The elevator roars by.

54 INT. ELEVATOR LOBBY-TRADE FEDERATION CRUISER

ANAKIN, OBI-WAN, and PALPATINE fly through the elevator door and land.

OBI-WAN: Let's see if we can find something in the hangar bay that's still flyable. Come on.

ANAKIN: Artoo, get down here. Artoo, do you copy?

55 INT. MAIN HANGAR-TRADE FEDERATION CRUISER

As the Federation Cruiser continues to rotate, ARTOO SQUEALS and pokes a periscope out of a pile of broken BATTLE DROID PARTS. He looks around then rockets up out of the debris.

56 INT. HALLWAY TO HANGAR BAY-TRADE FEDERATION CRUISER

OBI-WAN and ANAKIN lead PALPATINE down a hallway toward the hangar bay.

57 INT. DOORWAY TO HANGAR BAY-TRADE FEDERATION CRUISER

It is extremely windy as bits and pieces are continually sucked into space. The hangar bay doors are closed, but great stresses are being exerted as the ship twists, re-entering the atmosphere of Coruscant. They stop in a doorway leading into the hangar bay.

OBI-WAN: None of those ships will get us anywhere.

ANAKIN: I agree.

PALPATINE: What are we going to do?

ANAKIN: I don't know.

OBI-WAN: Don't look at me. I don't know.

ANAKIN and PALPATINE both look to OBI-WAN. He shrugs his shoulders. Anakin's Fighter has been sucked out of the hangar bay and is totaled. Suddenly, the ship turns on its side.

ANAKIN: Here, Chancellor, lock this around your waist, and hold on.

OBI-WAN: We'll head toward the bridge and see if we can find an escape pod.

ANAKIN hands PALPATINE the end of a cable that is attached to his utility belt. PALPATINE attaches it around his waist. ANAKIN and OBI-WAN throw their utility cables to some pipes in the ceiling and swing to a second set of pipes.

58 INT. MAIN HANGAR-TRADE FEDERATION CRUISER

OBI-WAN grabs onto the pipes that run along what was the ceiling and is now the wall. As he moves out into the hangar, TWO SUPER BATTLE DROIDS start firing at him. The Jedi ignites his lightsaber and deflects the bolts back at the DROIDS, blowing them up. ANAKIN and PALPATINE follow OBI-WAN along the pipes running along the ceiling of the hangar. PALPATINE struggles against the escaping air of the pressurized hangar. PALPATINE loses his grip as a pipe breaks, causing a rush of steam, but ANAKIN manages to maintain his grasp on the pipe as the CHANCELLOR dangles on the other end of the utility cable. They are surrounded by SPARKS and EXPLOSIONS as the ship twists and tries to break apart. ANAKIN moves out of the steam and struggles to pull PALPATINE back to safety. ANAKIN is almost pulled loose in the buffeting winds. The ceiling behind them buckles, causing pipes to break, creating geysers of steam. Some bits of pipe go hurling into the blast doors and out into space. They make it through a hangar doorway and close it behind them.

59 INT. HANGAR DOORWAY-TRADE FEDERATION CRUISER

OBI-WAN, ANAKIN and PALPATINE are out of breath.

ANAKIN/OBI-WAN: Well, that was close.

They laugh.

60 INT. BRIDGE-TRADE FEDERATION CRUISER

BODYGUARD: General, we found the Jedi. They're in hallway 328.

GENERAL GRIEVOUS: Activate ray shields.

61 INT. HALLWAY-TRADE FEDERATION CRUISER

They run down the hallway. Suddenly, ray shields drop around them, putting them in an electronic box in the middle of the hallway.

ANAKIN: Ray shields!

OBI-WAN takes a deep breath to express his total disappointment.

OBI-WAN: Wait a minute, how'd this happen! We're smarter than this.

ANAKIN: Apparently not, Master. This is the oldest trap in the book . . . Well ... I was distracted.

OBI-WAN: Oh, so all of a sudden it's my fault.

ANAKIN: You're the Master. I'm just a hero.

OBI-WAN: I'm open to suggestions here.

PALPATINE: Why don't we let them take us to General Grievous. Perhaps with Count Dooku's demise, we can negotiate our release.

The Jedi look at each other in disbelief.

ANAKIN: I say . . . patience.

OBI-WAN: Patience! That's your plan, is it?

ANAKIN: Yes, Artoo will be along in a few moments and he'll release the ray shields . . .

ARTOO comes skidding across the hallway and bashes into the opposite wall. He takes a moment to compose himself.

ANAKIN: (continuing) See! No problem.

Suddenly several doorways open, revealing TWO DESTROYER DROIDS. SIXTEEN SUPER BATTLE DROIDS emerge from behind the DESTROYER DROIDS.
ARTOO turns and zaps one of the SUPER BATTLE DROIDS who then kicks ARTOO over.

SUPER BATTLE DROID: Don't move, dummy. Ouch! Zap this.

OBI-WAN: Do you have a plan B?

62 EXT. BRIDGE-TRADE FEDERATION CRUISER

OBI-WAN, ANAKIN PALPATINE, and ARTOO are captured by GENERAL GRIEVOUS. They stand before the ALIEN DROID GENERAL.

GENERAL GRIEVOUS: Oh yes. General Kenobi, the Negotiator. We've been waiting for you. That wasn't much of a rescue.

A BATTLE DROID walks to GENERAL GRIEVOUS and hands him the JEDI'S lightsabers.

OBI-WAN: That depends upon your point of view. Hah!

GENERAL GRIEVOUS: And Anakin Skywalker ... I was expecting someone with your reputation to be a little older.

ANAKIN: General Grievous . . . Supreme Commander of the Droid Armies. You're shorter than I expected.

GENERAL GRIEVOUS: Ahhhh, Jedi scum . . .

OBI-WAN: Anakin, try not to upset him. We have a job to do.

GENERAL GRIEVOUS: Your lightsabers will make a fine addition to my collection.

OBI-WAN: Not this time. And this time you won't escape.

ANAKIN: Artoo.

ARTOO creates a distraction by extending all his arms, shooting out electrical pulses, and bouncing around.
OBI-WAN, hands restrained with electrobonds, spins around, reaches out and, using the Force, yanks his lightsaber out of the General's hand, ignites it, and cuts his bonds. He continues to spin around and cuts Anakin free.

GENERAL GRIEVOUS: Crush them! Make them suffer!

ANAKIN uses the Force to yank his lightsaber out of the General's hand.

The DROIDS that surround them begin to FIRE. OBI-WAN and ANAKIN jump into the line of fire. The bridge degenerates into chaos. OBI-WAN and ANAKIN are locked in a pitched battle between electro staffs and laser swords with GENERAL GRIEVOUS's TWO BODYGUARDS.

CHANCELLOR PALPATINE is taken away by two BATTLE DROIDS. GENERAL GRIEVOUS walks around the bridge directing the BATTLE DROIDS.

GENERAL GRIEVOUS: Stay and watch your stations.

OBI-WAN fights one of General Grievous's BODYGUARDS. The BODYGUARD carries an electrified staff about five feet long. When the laser sword hits it, electrical bolts fly everywhere and surround the laser sword. OBI-WAN is unable to cut the staff. The Jedi gets whacked pretty good a couple of times and is knocked halfway across the bridge.
OBI-WAN pulls himself together and attacks again, cutting off the DROID BODYGUARD'S head. The DROID BODYGUARD keeps attacking. ANAKIN struggles to defend himself against the other manic DROID BODYGUARD. He cuts the DROID BODYGUARD in half. TWO BATTLE DROIDS try to take the CHANCELLOR away.
ANAKIN follows them down the hallway and cuts them down, rescuing the Chancellor.
OBI-WAN finishes off the headless BODYGUARD. It crumbles to the floor in pieces.
ALARMS SOUND as the giant spacecraft begins to list and fall out of orbit. A PILOT yells at GENERAL GRIEVOUS.

PILOT: Sir, we are falling out of orbit. All aft control cells are dead.

GENERAL GRIEVOUS: Stay on course . . . Don't bother with them. Keep the ship in orbit.

OBI-WAN and ANAKIN destroy the remaining DROIDS. GENERAL GRIEVOUS retrieves one of the BODYGUARD'S staffs and faces OBI-WAN. ANAKIN leaps over a console and lands behind GENERAL GRIEVOUS.

GENERAL GRIEVOUS: You lose, General Kenobi.

One of the PILOTS stands next to the General.

PILOT: The ship is breaking up!

GENERAL GRIEVOUS: We've run out of time.

OBI-WAN tries to get at GENERAL GRIEVOUS. ANAKIN runs at the General from the opposing side. GENERAL GRIEVOUS turns and throws his electrified staff at the window. It breaks, causing chaos as everything that is not nailed down is sucked into space. GENERAL GRIEVOUS is the first one sucked out into space. He fires a cable from his arm that attaches to the ship. He swings in and lands firmly on the side of the ship.
OBI-WAN, ANAKIN, and PALPATINE hold on for dear life. A blast shield closes around where the window used to be.

63 INT. BRIDGE-TRADE FEDERATION CRUISER

OBI-WAN continues to fight the BATTLE DROIDS. The DROIDS have backed him into a corner. OBI-WAN hides behind a control panel as the DROIDS blast away at him. He jumps up and over the DROIDS, cutting most of them down before he lands. He destroys the DROIDS and joins ANAKIN.
ANAKIN and OBI-WAN cut through the rest of the DROIDS as if they were made of butter. PALPATINE stands in shock as he watches the carnage. Droid parts are firing everywhere. OBI-WAN and ANAKIN stand back to back and cut down the last of the DROIDS just as there is a huge shudder, followed by more alarms. SPARKS begin to fly outside the windows.

PALPATINE: The hull is burning up!

64 EXT. HULL-TRADE FEDERATION CRUISER-SPACE

GENERAL GRIEVOUS detaches his cable and crawls along the exterior hull of the Federation Cruiser, using his magnetized hands and feet. He reaches a row of escape pods and enters an airlock.

65 INT. POD BAY-TRADE FEDERATION CRUISER-SPACE

GENERAL GRIEVOUS enters the escape pod bay through the hatch. The Droid General goes to a control panel and opens an escape pod.

GENERAL GRIEVOUS: Time to abandon ship.

GENERAL GRIEVOUS pulls a row of switches, and one by one the escape pods are jettisoned.

66 INT. ESCAPE POD-SPACE

He gets in one, the hatch closes, and the escape pod blasts away from the damaged Cruiser.

67 INT. BRIDGE-TRADE FEDERATION CRUISER

OBI-WAN and ANAKIN go over to the navigator's chair.

ANAKIN: All the escape pods have been launched.

OBI-WAN: Grievous. Can you fly a cruiser like this?

ANAKIN: You mean, do I know how to land what's left of this thing?

ANAKIN sits in the pilot's chair and sees on a screen the back half of the ship break away. There is a great jolt, and the ship tilts forward.

OBI-WAN: Well?

ANAKIN: Under the circumstances, I'd say the ability to pilot this thing is irrelevant. Strap yourselves in.

OBI-WAN and PALPATINE strap themselves into chairs. ANAKIN struggles with the controls of the ship. The ship starts to glow, and pieces break off. ARTOO moves in on Palpatine 's controls and assists in flying the cruiser.

OBI-WAN: Steady . . . Attitude . . . eighteen degrees.

ARTOO beeps.

ANAKIN: Pressure rising. We've got to slow this wreck down. Open all hatches, extend all flaps, and drag fins.

OBI-WAN: Temp steady. Hatches open, flaps extended, drag fins . . .

A large part of the ship breaks away.

ANAKIN: We lost something.

OBI-WAN: Not to worry, we're still flying half the ship.

ANAKIN: Now we're really picking up speed . . . I'm going to shift a few degrees and see if I can slow us down.

OBI-WAN: Careful . . . we're heating up-twelve thousand . . . thirteen thousand . . .

ANAKIN: What's our speed?

OBI-WAN: Eight plus sixty-forty. Eight plus sixty-twenty. Eight plus sixty. Temp ten thousand, nine thousand . . . we're in the atmosphere . . .

ANAKIN points to one of the controls. ARTOO beeps madly.

ANAKIN: Grab that . . . Keep us level.

OBI-WAN: Steady. Steady.

ANAKIN: Easy, Artoo. Hang on, this may get a little rough. We lost our heat shields.

OBI-WAN: Five thousand. Three thousand . . . two thousand. Fireships on the left and the right.

FlRESHIP PILOT: We'll take you in.

OBI-WAN: Copy that. Landing strip's straight ahead.

ANAKIN: We're coming in too hot.

OBI-WAN: Easy-easy.

The ship leaves a contrail as it streaks across the Coruscant skyline. PALPATINE and OBI-WAN hold on for dear life as the ship shakes and rattles toward an industrial landing platform.

68 EXT. CORUSCANT-INDUSTRIAL LANDING PLATFORM-AFTERNOON

A large landing platform in the industrial part of the city is surrounded by Emergency Fire Speeders. The smoking ship approaches as five Fireships spray it with foam. The ship finally makes a rather hard landing.

OBI-WAN: Another happy landing.

69 EXT. CORUSCANT-SENATE OFFICE BUILDING-LANDING PLATFORM-LATE AFTERNOON

The small Jedi Shuttle carrying PALPATINE and the JEDI arrives at the landing platform. There are a DOZEN SENATORS, including BAIL ORGANA, JAR JAR BINKS, and C-3PO, waiting for them. PALPATINE, R2-D2, and ANAKIN get out. OBI-WAN and MACE stay in the doorway of the Jedi Shuttle.

ANAKIN: (to Obi-Wan) Are you coming, Master?

OBI-WAN: Oh no. I'm not brave enough for politics. I have to report to the Council. Besides, someone needs to be the poster boy.

ANAKIN: Hold on, this whole operation was your idea. You planned it. You led the rescue operation. You have to be the one to take the bows this time.

OBI-WAN: Sorry, old friend. Let us not forget that you rescued me from the Buzz Droids. And you killed Count Dooku. And you rescued the Chancellor, carrying me unconscious on your back, and you managed to land that bucket of bolts safely . . .

ANAKIN: All because of your training, Master. You deserve all those speeches of your greatness.

OBI-WAN: . . . the endless speeches . . . Anakin, let's be fair. Today, you are the hero and you deserve your glorious day with the politicians.

ANAKIN: All right. But you owe me . . . and not for saving your skin for the tenth time . . .

OBI-WAN: Ninth time . . . that business on Cato Nemoidia doesn't count. I'll see you at the briefing.

ANAKIN smiles and walks away from OBI-WAN.
The CHANCELLOR and his entourage approach MACE.

MACE WlNDU: Chancellor Palpatine, what a welcome sight! Are you all right?

PALPATINE: Yes, thanks to your two Jedi Knights. They killed Count Dooku, but General Grievous has escaped once again.

MACE WlNDU: General Grievous will run and hide as he always does. He is a coward.

PALPATINE: That maybe true, but with Count Dooku dead, he is the leader of the Droid Army, and I assure you, the Senate will vote to continue the war as long as Grievous is alive.

MACE WlNDU: Then the Jedi Council will make finding Grievous our highest priority.

BAIL, ANAKIN, and the crowd walk away from the platform toward the Senate Building Grand Hallway.

BAIL ORGANA: Skywalker, the Republic cannot praise you enough.

ANAKIN and BAIL ORGANA, walking in the hallway.

ANAKIN: Thank you, Senator Organa. The kidnapping was a bold move by the Separatists, but it was a mistake that Obi-Wan and I were able to take advantage of.

ARTOO and THREEPIO follow behind the crowd.

C-3PO: It couldn't possibly be as bad as all that.

ARTOO beeps.

C-3PO: (continuing) Well, there, I agree with you. In fact, I could do with a tune-up myself.

70 INT. CORUSCANT-SENATE OFFICE BUILDING-MAIN HALLWAY-LATE AFTERNOON

ANAKIN is at the back of the crowd of SENATORS, talking with BAIL ORGANA. R2-D2 and C-3PO scoot along ahead of them.

BAIL ORGANA: The end of Count Dooku will surely bring an end to this war, and an end to the Chancellor's draconian security measures.

ANAKIN: I wish that were so, but the fighting is going to continue until General Grievous is spare parts . . . The Chancellor is very clear about that.

Behind a row of large columns, a SHADOWY FIGURE follows the JEDI and the SENATOR. ANAKIN senses the figure.

BAIL ORGANA: I'll do everything I can with the Senate.

ANAKIN: Excuse me.

BAIL ORGANA: Certainly.

ANAKIN stops, and BAIL goes off after PALPATINE and the others. ANAKIN goes behind one of the giant columns to meet up with the SHADOWY FIGURE, who is revealed to be SENATOR PADME AMDALA. They embrace and kiss.

PADME: Oh, Anakin! Thank goodness, you're back.

ANAKIN: I missed you, Padme. I've missed you so.

PADME: There were whispers . . . that you'd been killed. I've been living with unbearable dread.

ANAKIN: I'm back, I'm all right. It feels like we've been apart for a lifetime. And it might have been ... If the Chancellor hadn't been kidnapped. I don't think they would have ever brought us back from the Outer Rim sieges.

ANAKIN starts to give her another kiss. She steps back.

PADME: Wait, not here . . .

He grabs her again.

ANAKIN: Yes, here! I'm tired of all this deception. I don't care if they know we're married.

PADME: Anakin, don't say things like that. You're important to the Republic ... to ending this war. I love you more than anything, but I won't let you give up your life as a Jedi for me . . .

ANAKIN: I've given my life to the Jedi order, but I'd only give up my life, for you.

PADME: (playfully) I wouldn't like that. I wouldn't like that one bit. Patience, my handsome Jedi . . . Come to me later.

ANAKIN embraces her, then looks at her.

ANAKIN: Are you all right? You're trembling. What's going on?

PADME: I'm just excited to see you.

ANAKIN: That's not it. I sense more . . . what is it?

PADME: Nothing . . . nothing . . .

ANAKIN: You're frightened. (a little angry) Tell me what's going on!

PADME begins to cry.

PADME: You've been gone five months . . . it's been very hard for me. I've never felt so alone. There's . . .

ANAKIN: . . . Is there someone else?

PADME: (peeved, angry) No! Why do you think that? Your jealousy upsets me so much, Anakin. I do nothing to betray you, yet you still don't trust me. Nothing has changed.

ANAKIN: (sheepish) I'm afraid of losing you, Padme . . . that's all.

PADME: I will never stop loving you, Anakin. My only fear is losing you.

ANAKIN: It's just that I've never seen you like this . . .

PADME: Something wonderful has happened.

They look at each other for a long moment.

PADME: (continuing) I'm . . . Annie, I'm pregnant.

ANAKIN is stunned. He thinks through all of the ramifications of this. He takes her in his arms.

ANAKIN: That's . . . that's wonderful.

PADME: What are we going to do?

ANAKIN: We're not going to worry about anything right now, all right? This is a happy moment. The happiest moment of my life.

71 EXT. UTAPAU-LANDING PLATFORM-DAY

A small NEIMOIDIAN SHUTTLE lands. BATTLE DROIDS surround the ramp as GENERAL GRIEVOUS descends onto the platform. SUPER BATTLE DROID G21 approaches.

SUPER BATTLE DROID G21: The planet is secure, sir. The population is under control.

GENERAL GRIEVOUS: Good. Where is the Separatist Council?

SUPER BATTLE DROID G21: This way, sir ...

GENERAL GRIEVOUS takes the elevator to an upper level. He enters a conference room and presses a series of buttons on the table, and bows.

72 INT. UTAPAU-CONFERENCE ROOM-GRAND CHAMBER-DAY

A hologram of Darth Sidious appears.

GENERAL GRIEVOUS: Yes, Lord Sidious.

DARTH SlDIOUS: General Grievous, I suggest you move the Separatist leaders to Mustafar.

GENERAL GRIEVOUS: It will be done, My Lord.

DARTH SlDIOUS: The end of the war is near, General, and I promise you, victory is assured.

The hologram of Sidious talks to GRIEVOUS about the death of Count Dooku.

GENERAL GRIEVOUS: But the loss of Count Dooku?

DARTH SlDIOUS: His death was a necessary loss, which will ensure our victory. Soon I will have a new apprentice . . . one far younger and more powerful than Lord Tyranus.

73 INT. CORUSCANT-PADME'S APARTMENT-TWILIGHT

PADME stands in the balcony brushing her hair. ANAKIN leans against the wall, watching her lovingly.

ANAKIN: . . . every second I was thinking of you. Protecting the endless, nameless Outer Rim settlements became a torture . . . the battles were easy, the longing became unbearable . . . I've never been so happy as I am at this moment.

PADME: Annie, I want to have our baby back home on Naboo. We could go to the lake country where no one would know . . . where we would be safe. I could go early-and fix up the baby's room. I know the perfect spot, right by the gardens.

ANAKIN: You are so beautiful!

PADME: It's only because I'm so in love . . .

ANAKIN: No, it's because I'm so in love with you.

PADME: So love has blinded you?

ANAKIN: Well, that's not exactly what I meant . . .

PADME: But it's probably true!

They laugh.

ANAKIN: I haven't laughed in so long . . .

PADME: Neither have I.

74 INT. POLIS MASSA-MEDICAL CENTER-DREAM

The view is strangely distorted and disorienting. PADME is on a table in an alien medical chamber. She is giving birth and is screaming.

PADME: Anakin, help me! Help, Anakin! Anakin, I love you. I love you.

She screams and dies.

75 INT. CORUSCANT-PADME'S APARTMENT-BEDROOM-NIGHT

ANAKIN awakens in a panic. He is covered in sweat. He looks over in the bed and sees PADME sound asleep next to him. ANAKIN gets out from under the sheets and sits on the side of the bed. He is breathing heavily. He puts his head in his hands and weeps. He regains his composure and leaves the room down a set of stairs. PADME awakens, realizes Anakin is gone.

PADME: Anakin??

She gets out of bed and goes downstairs to look for him.

76 EXT. CORUSCANT-PADME'S APARTMENT-VERANDA-NIGHT

ANAKIN walks down a flight of stairs onto a large veranda. The vast city planet of Coruscant, smoldering from the battle, is spread out before him. He is distraught.
PADME descends the stairs and joins ANAKIN on the veranda. She takes his hand. He doesn't look at her.

PADME: What's bothering you?

ANAKIN: Nothing . . .

ANAKIN touches the japor snippet around PADME'S neck, that Anakin gave her when he was a small boy.

ANAKIN: (continuing) I remember when I gave this to you.

PADME: Anakin, how long is it going to take for us to be honest with each other?

ANAKIN: It was a dream.

PADME: Bad?

ANAKIN: Like the ones I used to have about my mother just before she died.

PADME: And?

ANAKIN: It was about you.

They look at each other. A moment of concern passes between them.

PADME: Tell me.

ANAKIN: It was only a dream.

PADME gives him a long, worried look. ANAKIN takes a deep breath.

ANAKIN: (continuing) You die in childbirth . . .

PADME: And the baby?

ANAKIN: I don't know.

PADME: It was only a dream.

ANAKIN takes PADME in his arms.

ANAKIN: . . . I won't let this one become real, Padme.

They embrace, then part.

PADME: Anakin, this baby will change our lives. I doubt the Queen will continue to allow me to serve in the Senate, and if the Council discovers you are the father, you will be expelled from the Jedi Order.

ANAKIN: I know ‚Ä¶.

PADME: Anakin, do you think Obi-Wan might be able to help us?

ANAKIN: (suspicious) Have you told him anything?

PADME: No, but he's your mentor, your best friend . . . he must suspect something.

ANAKIN: He's been a father to me, but he's still on the Council. Don't tell him anything!

PADME: I won't, Anakin.

ANAKIN: I don't need his help . . . Our baby is a blessing, not a problem.

77 INT. CORUSCANT-JEDI TEMPLE-YODAS QUARTERS-DAY

YODA and ANAKIN sit in Yoda 's room, deep in thought.

YODA: Premonitions . . . premonitions . . . Hmmmm . . . these visions you have . . .

ANAKIN: They are of pain, suffering, death . . .

YODA: Yourself you speak of, or someone you know?

ANAKIN: Someone . . .

YODA: . . . close to you?

ANAKIN: Yes.

YODA: Careful you must be when sensing the future, Anakin. The fear of loss is a path to the dark side.

ANAKIN: I won't let these visions come true, Master Yoda.

YODA: Death is a natural part of life. Rejoice for those around you who transform into the Force. Mourn them, do not. Miss them, do not. Attachment leads to jealousy. The shadow of greed, that is.

ANAKIN: What must I do, Master Yoda?

YODA: Train yourself to let go of everything you fear to lose.

78 INT. CORUSCANT-JEDI TEMPLE-HALLWAY-DAY

ANAKIN hurries down a temple hallway, heading toward a Jedi Briefing Room. SEVERAL JEDI are exiting.

79 INT. CORUSCANT-JEDI TEMPLE-BRIEFING ROOM-DAY

ANAKIN rushes into the Briefing Room. By the time he reaches the Chamber, the last of the Jedi are leaving. Only OBI-WAN remains at the front of the lecture hall. He is shutting off some holograms and electronic charts and maps.

OBI-WAN: You missed the report on the Outer Rim sieges.

ANAKIN: I'm sorry, I was held up. I have no excuse.

OBI-WAN: In short, they are going very well. Saleucami has fallen, and Master Vos has moved his troops to Boz Pity.

ANAKIN: What's wrong then?

OBI-WAN: The Senate is expected to vote more executive powers to the Chancellor today.

ANAKIN: Well, that can only mean less deliberating and more action. Is that bad? It will make it easier for us to end this war.

OBI-WAN: Anakin, be careful of your friend Palpatine.

ANAKIN: Be careful of what?

OBI-WAN: He has requested your presence.

ANAKIN: What for?

OBI-WAN: He would not say.

ANAKIN: He didn't inform the Jedi Council? That's unusual, isn't it?

OBI-WAN: All of this is unusual, and it's making me feel uneasy. You're probably aware that relations between the Council and the Chancellor are stressed.

ANAKIN: I know the Council has grown wary of the Chancellor's power, mine also for that matter. Aren't we all working together to save the Republic? Why all this distrust?

OBI-WAN: The Force grows dark, Anakin, and we are all affected by it. Be wary of your feelings.

80 INT. CORUSCANT-CHANCELLOR'S OFFICE-DAY

ANAKIN stands with PALPATINE at his window overlooking the vastness of Coruscant. Several buildings have been destroyed. A brown haze hangs over the landscape.

PALPATINE: Anakin, this afternoon the Senate is going to call on me to take direct control of the Jedi Council.

ANAKIN: The Jedi will no longer report to the Senate?

PALPATINE: They will report to me . . . personally. The Senate is too unfocused to conduct a war. This will bring a quick end to things.

ANAKIN: I agree, but the Jedi Council may not see it that way.

PALPATINE: There are times when we must all endure adjustments to the constitution in the name of security.

ANAKIN: With all due respect, sir, the Council is in no mood for more constitutional amendments.

PALPATINE: Thank you, my friend, but in this case I have no choice . . . this war must be won.

ANAKIN: Everyone will agree on that.

PALPATINE: Anakin, I've known you since you were a small boy. I have advised you over the years when I could ... I am very proud of your accomplishments. You have won many battles the Jedi Council thought were lost . . . and you saved my life. I hope you trust me, Anakin.

ANAKIN: Of course.

PALPATINE: I need your help, son.

ANAKIN: What do you mean?

PALPATINE: I fear the Jedi. The Council keeps pushing for more control. They're shrouded in secrecy and obsessed with maintaining their autonomy . . . ideals. I find simply incomprehensible in a democracy.

ANAKIN: I can assure you that the Jedi are dedicated to the values of the Republic, sir.

PALPATINE: Nevertheless, their actions will speak more loudly than their words. I'm depending on you.

ANAKIN: For what? I don't understand.

PALPATINE: To be the eyes, ears, and voice of the Republic . . .

ANAKIN thinks about this.

PALPATINE: (continuing) Anakin . . . I'm appointing you to be my personal representative on the Jedi Council.

ANAKIN: Me? A Master? I am overwhelmed, sir, but the Council elects its own members. They will never accept this.

PALPATINE: I think they will . . . they need you more than you know.

81 INT. CORUSCANT-BAIL ORGANA'S OFFICE-DAY

PADME, BAIL ORGANA, and SENATORS MON MOTHMA, FANG ZAR, TERR TANEEL, and GIDDEAN DANU sit in Senator Organa 's office.

BAIL ORGANA: Now that he has control of the Jedi Council, the Chancellor has appointed Governors to oversee all star systems in the Republic.

FANG ZAR: When did this happen?

BAIL ORGANA: The decree was posted this morning.

PADME: Do you think he will dismantle the Senate?

MON MOTHMA: Why bother? As a practical matter, the Senate no longer exists.

GIDDEAN DANU: The constitution is in shreds. Amendment after amendment . . . executive directives, sometimes a dozen in one day.

BAIL ORGANA: We can't let a thousand years of democracy disappear without a fight.

EVERYONE looks at each other, a little worried at the implications of what was just said.

TERR TANEEL: What are you suggesting?

BAIL ORGANA: I apologize. I didn't mean to sound like a Separatist.

MON MOTHMA: We are not Separatists trying to leave the Republic. We are loyalists, trying to preserve democracy in the Republic.

BAIL ORGANA: It has become increasingly clear to many of us that the Chancellor has become an enemy of democracy.

PADME: I can't believe it has come to this! Chancellor Palpatine is one of my oldest advisors. He served as my Ambassador when I was Queen.

GlDDEAN DANU: Senator, I fear you underestimate the amount of corruption that has taken hold in the Senate.

MON MOTHMA: The Chancellor has played the Senators well. They know where the power lies, and they will do whatever it takes to share in it. Palpatine has become a dictator and we have helped him to do it.

BAIL ORGANA: We can't sit around debating any longer, we have decided to do what we can to stop it. Senator Mon Mothma and I are putting together an organization . . .

PADME: Say no more. Senator Organa. I understand. At this point, it's better to leave some things unsaid.

BAIL ORGANA: Yes. I agree and we must not discuss this with anyone, without everyone in this group agreeing.

MON MOTHMA: That means those closest to you . . . even family ... no one can be told.

They ALL nod their heads. PADME considers this for a moment.

PADME: Agreed.

82 INT. CORUSCANT-JEDI TEMPLE-HALLWAY OUTSIDE COUNCIL CHAMBERS-DAY

ANAKIN stands pensively in front of the Jedi Council Chambers. The door opens.

83 INT. CORUSCANT-JEDI TEMPLE-COUNCIL CHAMBERS-DAY

ANAKIN enters and stands in the middle of the room. He is surrounded by the Jedi Council MACE WINDU, EETH KOTH OBI-WAN, YODA, the HOLOGRAMS of PLO KOON and KI-ADI-MUNDI.

MACE: Anakin Skywalker, we have approved your appointment to the Council as the Chancellor's personal representative.

ANAKIN: I will do my best to uphold the principles of the Jedi Order.

YODA: Allow this appointment lightly, the Council does not. Disturbing is this move by Chancellor Palpatine.

ANAKIN: I understand.

MACE: You are on this Council, but we do not grant you the rank of Master.

Anakin reacts with anger.

ANAKIN: What? ! How can you do this?? This is outrageous, it's unfair . . . I'm more powerful than any of you. How can you be on the Council and not be a Master?

MACE: Take a seat, young Skywalker.

ANAKIN: Forgive me, Master.

ANAKIN goes and sits in one of the empty chairs. Everyone is embarrassed. KI-ADI-MUNDI WHO APPEARS AS A HOLOGRAM, speaks.

Kl-ADI-MUNDI: We have surveyed all systems in the Republic, and have found no sign of General Grievous.

YODA: Hiding in the Outer Rim, Grievous is. The outlying systems, you must sweep.

OBI-WAN: It may take some time . . . we do not have many ships to spare.

MACE: We cannot take ships from the front line.

OBI-WAN: And yet, it would be fatal for us to allow the droid armies to regroup.

YODA: Master Kenobi, our spies contact, you must, and then wait.

Kl-ADI-MUNDI: What about the droid attack on the Wookiees?

MACE: It is critical we send an attack group there, immediately!

OBI-WAN: He's right, that is a system we cannot afford to lose. It's the main navigation route for the southwestern quadrant.

ANAKIN: I know that system well. It would take us little time to drive the droids off that planet.

MACE: Skywalker, your assignment is here with the Chancellor, and Kenobi must find General Grievous.

YODA: Go, I will. Good relations with the Wookiees, I have.

MACE: It is settled then. Yoda will take a battalion of clones to reinforce the Wookiees on Kashyyyk. May the Force be with us all.

ANAKIN is disappointed.

84 INT. CORUSCANT-JEDI TEMPLE-MASSIVE MAIN HALLWAY AND ALCOVE-LATE AFTERNOON

ANAKIN and OBI-WAN walk through one of the massive Jedi Temple hallways. ANAKIN is furious.

ANAKIN: What kind of nonsense is this, put me on the Council and not make me a Master!?? That's never been done in the history of the Jedi. It's insulting!

OBI-WAN: Calm down, Anakin. You have been given a great honor. To be on the Council at your age . . . It's never happened before. Listen to me, Anakin. The fact of the matter is you're too close to the Chancellor. The Council doesn't like it when he interferes in Jedi affairs.

ANAKIN: I swear to you, I didn't ask to be put on the Council . . .

OBI-WAN: But it's what you wanted! Your friendship with Chancellor Palpatine seems to have paid off.

ANAKIN: That has nothing to do with this.

OBI-WAN: Anakin, regardless of how it happened, you find yourself in a delicate situation.

ANAKIN: You mean divided loyalties.

OBI-WAN: I warned you there was tension between the Council and the Chancellor. I was very clear. Why didn't you listen? You walked right into it.

ANAKIN: The Council is upset I'm the youngest to ever serve.

OBI-WAN: No, it is not. Anakin, I worry when you speak of jealousy and pride. Those are not Jedi thoughts. They're dangerous, dark thoughts.

ANAKIN: Master, you of all people should have confidence in my abilities. I know where my loyalties lie.

OBI-WAN: I hope so . . .

ANAKIN: I sense there's more to this talk than you're saying.

OBI-WAN: Anakin, the only reason the Council has approved your appointment is because the Chancellor trusts you.

ANAKIN: And?

OBI-WAN: Anakin, look, I am on your side. I didn't want to see you put in this situation.

ANAKIN: What situation?

OBI-WAN: (takes a deep breath) The Council wants you to report on all of the Chancellor's dealings. They want to know what he's up to.

ANAKIN: They want me to spy on the Chancellor? That's treason!

OBI-WAN: We are at war, Anakin. The Jedi Council is sworn to uphold the principles of the Republic, even if the Chancellor does not.

ANAKIN: Why didn't the Council give me this assignment when we were in session?

OBI-WAN: This assignment is not to be on record. The Council asked me to approach you on this personally.

ANAKIN: The Chancellor is not a bad man, Obi-Wan. He befriended me. He's watched out for me ever since I arrived here.

OBI-WAN: That is why you must help us, Anakin. Our allegiance is to the Senate, not to its leader who has managed to stay in office long after his term has expired.

ANAKIN: Master, the Senate demanded that he stay longer.

OBI-WAN: Yes, but use your feelings, Anakin. Something is out of place.

ANAKIN: You're asking me to do something against the Jedi Code. Against the Republic. Against a mentor . . . and a friend. That's what's out of place here. Why are you asking this of me?

OBI-WAN: The Council is asking you.

85 EXT. CORUSCANT-CLONE LANDING PLATFORM-DAY

A JEDI GUNSHIP heads for the huge Clone landing platform.

86 INT. CORUSCANT-JEDI GUNSHIP-DAY

YODA, MACE, and OBI-WAN ride in the GUNSHIP as it heads for the Clone landing platform. Mace and Obi-Wan are sitting.

OBI-WAN : Anakin did not take to his assignment with much enthusiasm.

YODA: Too much under the sway of the Chancellor, he is. Much anger there is in him. Too much pride in his powers.

MACE: It's very dangerous, putting them together. I don't think the boy can handle it. I don't trust him.

OBI-WAN: He'll be all right. I trust him with my life.

MACE:I wish I did.

OBI-WAN: With all due respect, Master, is he not the Chosen One? Is he not to destroy the Sith and bring balance to the Force?

MACE: So the prophecy says.

YODA: A prophecy . . . that misread could have been.

OBI-WAN: He will not let me down. He never has.

YODA: I hope right you are. And now destroy the Droid armies on Kashyyyk, I will. May the Force be with you.

The GUNSHIP lands and the ramp lowers. YODA exits the GUNSHIP. MACE and OBI-WAN stand and give him a brief bow then take off in the GUNSHIP.

87 EXT. CORUSCANT-PADME'S APARTMENT-VERANDA-SUNSET

Padme's Speeder pulls up to the landing platform. CAPTAIN TYPHO escorts PADME onto the veranda, where TWO HANDMAIDENS (ELLE and MOTEE) are waiting. PADME turns to CAPTAIN TYPHO.

PADME: Thank you, Captain.

CAPTAIN TYPHO: Rest well. My Lady.

CAPTAIN TYPHO gets back into the Speeder, and it disappears into the cityscape. The HANDMAIDENS, Motee and Elle, approach PADME as the SHADOW OF A FIGURE moves in the background. C-3PO is standing nearby.

PADME: I'll be up in a while.

MOTEE: Yes, my lady.

C-3PO stands, confused, as the HANDMAIDENS turn and exit.

C-3PO: Is there anything I might do for you, my lady?

PADME: Yes, make sure all the security droids are working. Thank you, Threepio.

The golden droid turns and exits.

PADME stands and watches the sunset. The SHADOWY FIGURE moves toward her. She senses something.

ANAKIN: Beautiful, isn't it?

PADME jumps and turns around.

PADME: You startled me.

He sits next to her on the bench.

ANAKIN: How are you feeling?

PADME: He keeps kicking.

ANAKIN: He?! Why do you think it's a boy?

PADME: (laughs) My motherly intuition.

She puts his hand on her belly.

ANAKIN: Whoa! With a kick that strong, it's got to be a girl.

They laugh.

PADME: I heard about your appointment. Anakin. I'm so proud of you.

ANAKIN: I may be on the Council, but . . . they refused to accept me as a Jedi Master.

PADME: Patience. In time, they will recognize your skills.

ANAKIN: They still treat me as if I were a Padawan learner. . . they fear my power, that's the problem.

PADME: Anakin . . .

ANAKIN: Sometimes, I wonder what's happening to the Jedi Order . . . I think this war is destroying the principles of the Republic.

PADME: Have you ever considered that we may be on the wrong side?

ANAKIN: (suspicious) What do you mean?

PADME: What if the democracy we thought we were serving no longer exists, and the Republic has become the very evil we have been fighting to destroy?

ANAKIN: I don't believe that. And you're sounding like a Separatist!

PADME: Anakin, this war represents a failure to listen . . . Now, you're closer to the Chancellor than anyone. Please, please ask him to stop the fighting and let diplomacy resume.

ANAKIN: (growing angry) Don't ask me to do that, Padme. Make a motion in the Senate, where that kind of a request belongs. I'm not your errand boy. I'm not anyone's errand boy!

PADME: What is it?

ANAKIN: Nothing.

PADME: Don't do this . . . don't shut me out. Let me help you.

ANAKIN: You can't help me . . . I'm trying to help you.

They look in each other's eyes.

ANAKIN: (continuing) I sense . . . there are things you are not telling me.

PADME is startled at this.

PADME: I sense there are things you are not telling me.

PADME smiles. ANAKIN is a little embarrassed.

PADME: (continuing) Hold me . . . like you did by the lake on Naboo, so long ago . . . when there was nothing but our love ... No politics, no plotting ... no war.

88 INT. CORUSCANT-GALAXIES OPERA HOUSE-NIGHT

ANAKIN lands his speeder and exits.
ANAKIN runs up the stairs at the Galaxies Opera House.
ANAKIN runs through the hallway and enters Palpatine's box, where the CHANCELLOR is sitting with Mas Amedda and Sly-Moore, watching the Man Calamari Ballet doing "Squid Lake."

ANAKIN: You wanted to see me, Chancellor.

PALPATINE: Yes, Anakin! Come closer. I have good news. Our Clone Intelligence Units have discovered the location of General Grievous. He is hiding in the Utapau system.

ANAKIN: At last, we'll be able to capture that monster and end this war.

PALPATINE: I would worry about the collective wisdom of the Council if they didn't select you for this assignment. You are the best choice by far ‚Ä¶ but, they can't always be trusted to do the right thing.

ANAKIN: They try.

PALPATINE: Sit down, (to his aides) Leave us.

ANAKIN sits next to PALPATINE. The Chancellor leans over to him.

PALPATINE: (continuing) Anakin, you know I'm not able to rely on the Jedi Council. If they haven't included you in their plot, they soon will.

ANAKIN: I'm not sure I understand.

PALPATINE: You must sense what I have come to suspect . . . the Jedi Council want control of the Republic . . . they're planning to betray me.

ANAKIN: I don't think . . .

PALPATINE: Anakin, search your feelings. You know, don't you?

ANAKIN: I know they don't trust you . . .

PALPATINE: Or the Senate . . . or the Republic . . . or democracy for that matter.

ANAKIN: I have to admit my trust in them has been shaken.

PALPATINE: Why? They asked you to do something that made you feel dishonest, didn't they?

ANAKIN doesn't say anything. He simply looks down.

PALPATINE: (continuing) They asked you to spy on me, didn't they?

ANAKIN: I don't know ... I don't know what to say.

PALPATINE: Remember back to your early teachings. Anakin. "All those who gain power are afraid to lose it." Even the Jedi.

ANAKIN: The Jedi use their power for good.

PALPATINE: Good is a point of view, Anakin. And the Jedi point of view is not the only valid one. The Dark Lords of the Sith believe in security and justice also, yet they are considered by the Jedi to be. . .

ANAKIN: . . . evil.

PALPATINE: . . . from a Jedi's point of view. The Sith and the Jedi are similar in almost every way, including their quest for greater power. The difference between the two is the Sith are not afraid of the dark side of the Force. That is why they are more powerful.

ANAKIN: The Sith rely on their passion for their strength. They think inward, only about themselves.

PALPATINE: And the Jedi don't?

ANAKIN: The Jedi are selfless . . . they only care about others.

PALPATINE smiles.

PALPATINE: Or so you've been trained to believe. Why is it, then, that they have asked you to do something you feel is wrong?

ANAKIN: I'm not sure it's wrong.

PALPATINE: Have they asked you to betray the Jedi code? The Constitution? A friendship? Your own values? Think. Consider their motives. Keep your mind clear of assumptions. The fear of losing power is a weakness of both the Jedi and the Sith.

ANAKIN is deep in thought.

PALPATINE: (continuing) Did you ever hear the tragedy of Darth Plagueis "the wise"?

ANAKIN: No.

PALPATINE: I thought not. It's not a story the Jedi would tell you. It's a Sith legend. Darth Plagueis was a Dark Lord of the Sith, so powerful and so wise he could use the Force to influence the midi-chlorians to create life ... He had such a knowledge of the dark side that he could even keep the ones he cared about from dying.

ANAKIN: He could actually save people from death?

PALPATINE: The dark side of the Force is a pathway to many abilities some consider to be unnatural.

ANAKIN: What happened to him?

PALPATINE: He became so powerful . . . the only thing he was afraid of was losing his power, which eventually, of course, he did. Unfortunately, he taught his apprentice everything he knew, then his apprentice killed him in his sleep. (smiles) Plagueis never saw it coming. It's ironic he could save others from death, but not himself.

ANAKIN: Is it possible to learn this power?

PALPATINE: Not from a Jedi.

89 EXT. KASHYYYK-DAY

A WOOKIEE CATAMARAN flanked by WOOKIEE HELICOPTERS approaches the tree housing the HOLOGRAM AREA.

90 INT. KASHYYYK-HOLOGRAM AREA-DAY

YODA and various JEDI speak via hologram. The discussion includes OBI-WAN, MACE, AGEN KOLAR, YODA- KI-ADI-MUNDI and PLO KOON.

Kl-ADI-MUNDI: (holo) Palpatine thinks General Grievous is on Utapau. We have had no reports of this from our agents.

MACE: (holo) How could the Chancellor have come by this information and we know nothing about it? We have had contact with Baron Papanoida and he said no one was there.

ANAKIN: A partial message was intercepted in a diplomatic packet from the Chairman of Utapau.

YODA: Act on this, we must. The capture of General Grievous will end this war. Quickly and decisively we should proceed.

OBI-WAN: Does everyone agree?

All the JEDI concur.

ANAKIN: The Chancellor has requested that I lead the campaign.

They all look at ANAKIN a bit disturbed.

MACE: (a little peeved) The Council will make up its own mind who is to go, not the Chancellor.

Kl-ADI-MUNDI: Yes, this decision is ours to make.

ANAKIN is embarrassed and becomes sullen.

YODA: A Master is needed, with more experience.

MACE: Given our resources, I recommend we send only one Jedi . . . Master Kenobi.

ANAKIN: He was not so successful the last time he met Grievous.

OBI-WAN throws ANAKIN a dirty look.

ANAKIN: (continuing) No offense, my Master, but I'm only stating a fact.

OBI-WAN: Oh no, you're quite right, but I do have the most experience with his ways of combat.

YODA: Obi-Wan, my choice is.

Kl-ADI-MUNDI: I concur. Master Kenobi should go.

YODA: I agree.

All the JEDI concur.

MACE: Very well. Council is adjourned.

ANAKIN is angry.

MACE: (continuing) Obi-Wan, prepare two clone brigades as quickly as you can. If this report is true, there's no telling how many battle droids he may have with him.

91 INT. KASHYYYK-HOLOGRAM AREA-DAY

YODA gets out of his chair and walks to the edge of the platform.

CLONE COMMANDER GREE: The droids have started up their main power generators.

YODA: Then now the time is, Commander.

CLONE COMMANDER GREE: Yes, sir.

The battle begins.

92 EXT. KASHYYYK-BEACH HEAD-DAY

A WOOKIEE CHIEFTAIN lets out a roar as the Wookiee army rushes to face the DROID ARMY. CORPORATE ALLIANCE TANK DROIDS race across the water against the WOOKIEES and CLONE TROOPERS on the beach. DROID GUNSHIPS provide air support, while a SPIDER DROID emerges from the watery depths. A brave WOOKIEE places an explosive on a SEPARATIST TANK and jumps off just before the TANK EXPLODES. From the Hologram Area, Yoda observes the ongoing battle.

93 EXT. CORUSCANT-PADME'S APARTMENT-EARLY MORNING

Padme's apartment building is surrounded by the smog-shrouded city of Coruscant.

94 INT. CORUSCANT-PADME'S APARTMENT-LIVING ROOM-EARLY MORNING

PADME and OBI-WAN sit on one of the couches.

OBI-WAN: Has Anakin been to see you?

PADME: Several times . . . I was so happy to hear he was accepted on the Jedi Council.

OBI-WAN: I know ... he deserves it. He is impatient, strong willed, very opinionated, but truly gifted.

They laugh.

PADME: You're not just here to say hello. Something is wrong, isn't it?

OBI-WAN: You should be a Jedi, Padme.

PADME: You're not very good at hiding your feelings.

OBI-WAN: It's Anakin . . . He's becoming moody and detached. He's been put in a difficult position as the Chancellor's representative . . . but I think it's more than that. I was hoping he may have talked to you.

PADME: Why would he talk to me about his work?

OBI-WAN studies her.

OBI-WAN: Neither of you is very good at hiding your feelings either.

PADME: Don't give me that look.

OBI-WAN: I know how he feels about you.

PADME: (nervous) What did he say?

OBI-WAN: Nothing. He didn't have to.

PADME is a little flustered. She stands and Obi-Wan follows. She walks to the balcony.

PADME: I don't know what you're talking about.

OBI-WAN: I know you both too well. I can see you two are in love. Padme, I'm worried about him.

PADME looks down and doesn't answer.

OBI-WAN: (continuing) I fear your relationship has confused him. He's changed considerably since we returned . . .

They stand on the balcony and look off at the early morning city. OBI-WAN starts to leave. PADME stays looking off into the distant city.

OBI-WAN: (continuing) Padme, I'm not telling the Council about any of this. I ... I hope I didn't upset you. We're all friends, I care about both of you . . .

PADME: Thank you, Obi-Wan.

OBI-WAN: Please do what you can to help him.

95 INT. CORUSCANT-PADME'S APARTMENT-DAY

PADME, MON MOTHMA, and five other Senators (BANA BREEMU, FANG ZAR. CHI EEKWAY, GIDDEAN DANU, BAIL ORGANA) sit in Padme's living room. C-3PO serves drinks to the guests.

PADME: We cannot let this turn into another war.

BAIL ORGANA: Absolutely, that is the last thing we want.

MON MOTHMA: We are hoping to form an alliance in the Senate to stop the Chancellor from further subverting the constitution, that's all.

PADME: I know a Jedi I feel it would be wise to consult.

BANA BREEMU: That would be dangerous.

MON MOTHMA: We don't know where the Jedi stand in all this.

PADME: I only wish to discuss this with one . . . one I trust.

GiDDEAN DANU: Going against the Chancellor without the support of the Jedi is risky.

PADME: The Jedi aren't any happier with the situation than we are . . .

CHI EEKWAY: Patience, Senator.

FANG ZAR: We have so many Senators on our side, surely that will pursuade the Chancellor.

BANA BREEMU: When you present the "petition of the two thousand" to the Chancellor, things may change.

BAIL ORGANA: Let us see what we can accomplish in the Senate, before we include the Jedi.

PADME takes a deep breath in frustration and disappointment.

96 EXT. CORUSCANT-CLONE LANDING PLATFORM-DAY

ANAKIN and OBI-WAN walk onto a landing platform overlooking a docking bay where THOUSANDS OF CLONE TROOPS and armored weapons, tanks, etc., are being loaded onto a massive REPUBLIC ASSAULT SHIP.

ANAKIN: You're going to need me on this one, Master.

OBI-WAN: Oh, I agree. However it may turn out just to be a wild bantha chase.

OBI-WAN starts to turn and leave.

ANAKIN: Master!

OBI-WAN stops and ANAKIN walks over to him.

ANAKIN: (continuing) Master, I've disappointed you. I have not been very appreciative of your training . . . I have been arrogant and I apologize . . . I've just been so frustrated with the Council. Your friendship means everything to me.

OBI-WAN: You are strong and wise, Anakin, and I am very proud of you. I have trained you since you were a small boy. I have taught you everything I know. And you have become a far greater Jedi than I could ever hope to be, and you have saved my life more times than I can remember. But be patient, Anakin. It won't be long before the Council makes you a Jedi Master.

OBI-WAN starts down the ramp, then turns back.

OBI-WAN: (continuing) Don't worry. I have enough clones with me to take three systems the size of Utapau. I think I'll be able to handle the situation . . . even without your help.

ANAKIN: Well, there's always a first time.

OBI-WAN laughs.

They talk for a few more minutes before ANAKIN watches OBI-WAN depart.

ANAKIN: Obi-Wan, may the Force be with you.

OBI-WAN: Good-bye, old friend. May the Force be with you.

OBI-WAN heads down a ramp toward the waiting Republic cruiser.

97 EXT. CORUSCANT-CLONE LANDING PLATFORM-DAY

The Republic cruiser lifts off and heads for space.

98 INT. REPUBLIC BATTLE CRUISER-HANGAR-SPACE

CLONE TROOPERS stand at attention in rows on the floor of the hangar deck, waiting to board landing craft. OBI-WAN stands next to his BLUE JEDI FIGHTER- talking to SEVERAL CLONE COMMANDERS with their helmets off. A hologram of the planet Utapau is projected by R4-G9 into the middle of the hangar.

CLONE COMMANDER CODY: Fortunately, most of the cities are concentrated on this small continent here . . . on the far side.

OBI-WAN: I'll keep them distracted until you get there. Just don't take too long.

CLONE COMMANDER CODY: Come on, boss, when have I ever let you down?

They laugh.

OBI-WAN: (laughing) Cato Nemoidia . . . for starters.

OBI-WAN climbs into his Jedi Fighter.

CLONE COMMANDER CODY: That was Anakin who was late. I believe.

OBI-WAN: Very well, the burden is on me not to destroy all the droids before you get there.

CLONE COMMANDER CODY: I'm counting on you.

99 EXT. JEDI FIGHTER-SPACE

OBI-WAN blasts the BLUE JEDI FIGHTER out of the Republic Battle Cruiser and into the hyperspace ring. He heads for the planet Utapau.

100 EXT. CORUSCANT-CITYSCAPE-CHANCELLOR'S TRANSPORT-DAY

The Chancellor's Transport races through the city and heads for the Senate Office Building landing platform. Waiting on the landing platform is a LONE JEDI. The Transport lands, and CHANCELLOR PALPATINE emerges with FOUR ROYAL GUARDS and MAS AMEDDA. The FOUR ROYAL GUARDS move off in another direction as PALPATINE greets ANAKIN, who has been waiting for him.

PALPATINE: Well, Anakin, did you see your friend off?

ANAKIN: He will soon have Grievous's head.

PALPATINE: We can only hope the Council didn't make a mistake.

ANAKIN: The Council was very sure in its decision.

They exit the landing platform.

101 INT. CORUSCANT-SENATE OFFICE BUILDING-MAIN HALLWAY-DAY

They enter the main hallway of the Senate Office Building. They pass SEVERAL SENATORS, including REPRESENTATIVE JAR JAR BINKS from Naboo.

JAR JAR: Helloo Annie. Good en to see yousa . . .

The Gungan waves to Anakin.

ANAKIN: Hi, Jar Jar.

JAR JAR: Oopsin da Chancellor!! So sorry, Your Highness, sir.

Anakin turns back to the Chancellor.

PALPATINE: There are rumors in the Senate about Master Kenobi. Many believe he is not fit for this assignment.

ANAKIN: Not fit? Why would anyone think that?

PALPATINE: They say his mind has become fogged by the influence of a certain female Senator.

ANAKIN: That's ridiculous. Who?!?

PALPATINE: (slyly) No one knows who she is ... only that she is a Senator.

ANAKIN: That's impossible. I would know.

PALPATINE: Sometimes the closest are the ones who cannot see.

ANAKIN becomes worried.

PALPATINE: (continuing) Idle Senate gossip is rarely true and never accurate. I'm sure your Master will do fine.

102 INT. POLIS MASSA-MEDICAL CENTER-DREAM

PADME calls out in pain. OBI-WAN is near her and softly speaks to her.

OBI-WAN: Save your energy.

PADME: I can't!

OBI-WAN: Don't give up, Padme. Don't give up . . .

103 INT. CORUSCANT-PADME'S APARTMENT-LANDING ROOM-DAY

ANAKIN is in the living room, working. He sits on the couch where Obi-Wan was sitting. PADME enters and crosses behind him.

ANAKIN: I sense someone familiar . . . Obi-Wan's been here, hasn't he?

PADME: He came by this morning.

ANAKIN: What did he want?

PADME looks at him for a moment. ANAKIN seems tense.

PADME: He's worried about you.

ANAKIN: You told him about us, didn't you?

She continues to walk to the bedroom, he follows.

PADME: He's your best friend, Anakin. He says you're under a lot of stress.

ANAKIN: And he's not?

PADME: You have been moody lately.

ANAKIN: I'm not moody . . .

PADME: Anakin! Don't do this again.

ANAKIN: I don't know ... I feel . . . lost.

PADME: Lost? What do you mean? You're always so sure of yourself. I don't understand.

ANAKIN: Obi-Wan and the Council don't trust me.

PADME: They trust you with their lives. Obi-Wan loves you as a son.

ANAKIN: Something's happening . . . I'm not the Jedi I should be. I am one of the most powerful Jedi, but I'm not satisfied ... I want more, and I know I shouldn't.

PADME: You expect too much of yourself.

They stop in front of the window in the bedroom. ANAKIN puts his hand on her belly.

ANAKIN: I have found a way to save you.

PADME: Save me?

ANAKIN: From my nightmares.

PADME: Is that what's bothering you?

ANAKIN: I won't lose you, Padme.

PADME: I'm not going to die in childbirth, Annie. I promise you.

ANAKIN: No, I promise you! I am becoming so powerful with my new knowledge of the Force, I will be able to keep you from dying.

PADME looks ANAKIN in the eye.

PADME: You don't need more power, Anakin. I believe you can protect me against anything, just as you are.

They embrace and kiss.

104 EXT. UTAPAU-SPACE

OBI-WAN blasts out of the BLUE JEDI FIGHTER's hyperspace ring and heads for the planet Utapau. The BLUE FIGHTER skims over the planet's surface, flat except for a few giant sinkholes.

105 INT. UTAPAU-LANDING PLATFORM-DAY

OBI-WAN lands his ship on a Platform projecting out of the side of a giant sinkhole. All is quiet. A local administrator, TION MEDON, comes out to greet the ship. OBI-WAN climbs out of his Fighter as a SHORT GROUND CREW looks over his ship. On a ledge above the landing platform, GRIEVOUS's BODYGUARDS watch as OBI-WAN talks to TION MEDON.

TlON MEDON: Greetings, young Jedi. What brings you to our remote sanctuary?

OBI-WAN: Unfortunately, the war.

TlON MEDON: There is no war here unless you've brought it with you.

OBI-WAN: With your kind permission, I should like some fuel and to use your city as a base as I search nearby systems for General Grievous.

A GROUND CREW rushes out and refuels Obi-Wan‚Äôs Fighter. TION MEDON leans close to OBI-WAN and speaks quietly.

TlON MEDON: He is here! We are being held hostage. They are watching us.

OBI-WAN: I understand.

TlON MEDON: The tenth level . . . thousands of Battle Droids . . .

OBI-WAN: Tell your people to take shelter. If you have warriors, now is the time.

OBI-WAN starts back toward his Starfighter as TION MEDON leaves the Landing Platform. GRIEVOUS's BODYGUARDS retreat from the overhead platform. OBI-WAN climbs back into his BLUE JEDI FIGHTER. His Astro Unit (R4-G9) turns to him:

OBI-WAN: (continuing) Geenine, take the Fighter back to the ship. I'm staying here. Tell Cody I've made contact.

The little Astro Droid BEEPS a reply.

106 EXT. UTAPAU-OBSERVATION DECK-DAY

On a high balcony, TION MEDON looks down on the landing platform. A few steps behind him stands one of GENERAL GRIEVOUS's BODYGUARDS. They watch the canopy lower.

TlON MEDON: I told you, all he wanted was fuel.

BODYGUARD: What was his name?

TlON MEDON: He didn't say.

They watch as the BLUE JEDI FIGHTER takes off.

107 INT. UTAPAU-LANDING PLATFORM-HALLWAY-DAY

OBI-WAN also watches his ship take off. He is hiding in the hallway. He quietly moves farther into the city.

108 EXT. UTAPAU STAIRWAY-SINKHOLE RIM-DAY

OBI-WAN quickly rushes up a stairway cut into the side of the sinkhole. It's hard to see him. In an alcove, he carefully surveys the city, then quickly moves on.

109 INT. UTAPAU-CITY-DRAGON CORRAL-DAY

OBI-WAN makes his way through the city, looking up at the tenth level with electro-binoculars from his utility belt. He tries to figure out how he is going to get up there. He hears strange bellowing cries and he investigates.
He comes across a corral filled with about half a dozen DRAGON-LIKE LIZARDS. SEVERAL WRANGLERS are standing around.
OBI-WAN walks up to the WRANGLERS and uses the Force with his slight hand movements.

OBI-WAN: I need transportation.

WRANGLER: (subtitled, in native tongue) You need transportation.

OBI-WAN: Get it for me.

WRANGLER: (subtitled, in native tongue) I will get it for you.

One of the WRANGLERS turns to the others and chatters away in his strange tongue. OBI-WAN walks along the line of DRAGON/LIZARDS, checking out each one. He looks at their teeth, legs, etc. Finally he pats one on the neck.

OBI-WAN: This one.

The WRANGLER brings the chosen one over to him.

WRANGLER: Boga. She answers to Boga.

OBI-WAN: Good girl, Boga.

OBI-WAN swings onto the back of the LIZARD. The beast rears up and scurries outside to the edge of the sinkhole.

110 EXT. UTAPAU-SINKHOLE WALL-LIZARD-DAY

The LIZARD BOGA rears up on her hind legs again, then climbs the wall of the sheer cliff and starts moving up toward the tenth level. The city appears to be deserted. OBI-WAN is alert to any movement.

111 INT. UTAPAU-CONFERENCE ROOM-GRAND CHAMBER-DAY

GENERAL GRIEVOUS stands before the COUNCIL OF SEPARATISTS, including NUTE GUNRAY, RUNE HAAKO. POGGLE THE LESSER, SHU MAI, SAN HILL PO NUDO, WAT TAMBOR, and PASSEL ARGENTE. OBI-WAN hides above the assembly and watches intently.

GENERAL GRIEVOUS: It won't be long before the armies of the Republic track us here. I am sending you to the Mustafar system in the Outer Rim. It is a volcanic planet which generates a great deal of scanning interference. You will be safe there.

NUTE GUNRAY: Safe? Chancellor Palpatine managed to escape your grip, General, without Count Dooku. I have doubts about your ability to keep us safe.

GENERAL GRIEVOUS: Be thankful, Viceroy, you have not found yourself in my grip . . . Your ship is waiting.

OBI-WAN is deep in thought.

112 INT. UTAPAU-TENTH LEVEL-CONTROL CENTER-DAY

The JEDI removes his cloak and jumps down behind the GENERAL.

OBI-WAN: Hello, there!

GENERAL GRIEVOUS: General Kenobi, you are a bold one. I find your behavior bewildering . . . Surely you realize you're doomed, (to droids) Kill him!

About a HUNDRED BATTLE DROIDS surround OBI-WAN, GENERAL GRIEVOUS, and his BODYGUARDS. OBI-WAN looks around, then walks right up to GENERAL GRIEVOUS.
They stare at each other for a moment.

GENERAL GRIEVOUS: Enough of this.

The BODYGUARDS raise their power staffs to knock OBI-WAN away, but OBI-WAN ducks as the deadly staffs whistle over his head. The Jedi's lightsaber ignites, and OBI-WAN deftly cuts one BODYGUARD in two. His staff flies into the air and is caught by GENERAL GRIEVOUS. The other THREE BODYGUARDS attack OBI-WAN with an intense fury.
OBI-WAN uses the Force to release apiece of equipment from the ceiling. It drops on the BODYGUARDS, smashing them. OBI-WAN walks toward GRIEVOUS, slashing the last BODYGUARD to pieces. BATTLE DROIDS move toward OBI-WAN.

GENERAL GRIEVOUS: Back away. I will deal with this Jedi slime myself.

OBI-WAN: Your move.

GENERAL GRIEVOUS: You fool. I have been trained in your Jedi arts by Count Dooku himself. Attack, Kenobi.

His arms separate and grab all four lightsabers on his belt. His four arms create a flashing display of swordsmanship.

OBI-WAN: You forget I trained the Jedi that defeated Count Dooku!

OBI-WAN is hard-pressed to defend himself against the deadly onslaught. They fight across the control room as the BATTLE DROID SHARPSHOOTERS try to pick off the Jedi. OBI-WAN mounts a ferocious counterattack and cuts off one of GRIEVOUS's hands. A loud EXPLOSION is heard echoing throughout the sinkhole. GENERAL GRIEVOUS and OBI-WAN glance to the entrance of the control center and see CLONE TROOPS in the distance, attacking DROIDS in the sinkhole. On the far wall of the sinkhole, CLONES can be seen rappelling onto balconies.

OBI-WAN: I may not defeat your droids, but my troops certainly will.

GENERAL GRIEVOUS: Army or not, you must realize you are doomed.

OBI-WAN: I don't think so.

TWENTY CLONES suddenly rappel into the entrance of the control center, ray guns blazing. Chaos. Laser bolts fly everywhere as the DROIDS return fire. OBI-WAN attacks GENERAL GRIEVOUS, who defends himself rigorously with one of his bodyguard's electro-staffs. OBI-WAN uses the Force to hurl GENERAL GRIEVOUS backwards. He falls onto a lower platform and OBI-WAN jumps down after him.

113 INT. UTAPAU-TENTH LEVEL-CONTROL CENTER-DAY

More CLONES rappel into the control center and blast away at the remaining DROIDS.
The JEDI cuts down several DROIDS as he races to the entrance of the control center. OBI-WAN spots GENERAL GRIEVOUS racing toward one of the landing platforms in the midst of the battle. GENERAL GRIEVOUS jumps onto a WHEEL SCOOTER and takes off down the wall of the sinkhole. OBI-WAN whistles for his LIZARD BOGA, who runs to him. OBI-WAN jumps on.

114 EXT. UTAPAU-CLIFF AND LANDING PLATFORM-DAY

The chase begins. Obi-Wan drops his lightsaber while riding Boga.

115 EXT. CORUSCANT-SENATE OFFICE BUILDING-SUNSET

The sun is setting as the lights come on in the massive Senate Office Building. The sky is red.

116 INT. CORUSCANT-CHANCELLOR'S OFFICE-SUNSET

PALPATINE listens to a delegation from the Senate, which includes PADME and five other Senators: NEE ALAVAR, FANG ZAR, MALEDEE, SWEITT CONCORKILL, and MON CALAMARI. ANAKIN stands to one side of PALPATINE.

PALPATINE: I understand your reservations completely, Senator, and I assure you the appointment of Governors will in no way compete with the duties of the Senate.

PADME: May I take it then, that there will be no further amendments to the Constitution?

PALPATINE: I want this terrible conflict to end as much as you do, My Lady, and when it does I guarantee an immediate return to democracy . . .

PADME: You are pursuing a diplomatic solution to the war, then.

PALPATINE: You must trust me to do the right things, Senator. That is why I am here.

FANGZAR: But surely . . .

The Chancellor turns on FANG ZAR.

PALPATINE: I have said I will do what is right, that should be enough for your . . . committee.

PADME: On behalf of the "delegation of two thousand," I thank you, Chancellor.

PALPATINE: I thank you for bringing this to my attention, Senator.

PADME gives ANAKIN a frustrated look, then turns and exits with the other FIVE SENATORS. PALPATINE turns to ANAKIN.

PALPATINE: (continuing) Their sincerity is to be admired, although I sense there is more to their request than they are telling us.

ANAKIN: What do you mean?

PALPATINE: They are not to be trusted.

ANAKIN: Surely Senator Amidala can be trusted . . .

PALPATINE: These are unstable times for the Republic, Anakin. Some see instability as an opportunity. Senator Amidala is hiding something. I can see it in her eyes.

ANAKIN: I'm sure you're mistaken.

PALPATINE: I'm surprised your Jedi insights are not more sensitive to such things.

ANAKIN: I simply don't sense betrayal in Senator Amidala.

PALPATINE studies ANAKIN carefully and gives him a skeptical look.

PALPATINE: Yes, you do, but you don't seem to want to admit it. There is much conflict in you, Anakin.

117 INT. CORUSCANT-JEDI WAR ROOM-EARLY EVENING

KI-ADI-MUNDI, ANAKIN, YODA, MACE, CLONE COMMANDER CODY, and AAYLA SECURA talk via holograms.

CLONE COMMANDER CODY: Master Windu, may I interrupt? General Kenobi has made contact with General Grievous, and we
have begun our attack.

MACE WlNDU: Thank you, Commander. Anakin, deliver this report to the Chancellor. His reaction will give us a clue to his
intentions.

ANAKIN: Yes, Master.

ANAKIN leaves the room. COMMANDER CODY's hologram disappears.

MACE WINDU: I sense a plot to destroy the Jedi. The dark side of the Force surrounds the Chancellor.

Kl-ADI-MUNDI: If he does not give up his emergency powers after the destruction of Grievous, then he should be removed from
office.

MACE WiNDU: That could be a dangerous move ... the Jedi Council would have to take control of the Senate in order to secure a peaceful transition . . .

Kl-ADI-MUNDI: . . . and replace the Congress with Senators who are not filled with greed and corruption.

YODA: To a dark place this line of thought will carry us. Hmmmmm. . . . great care we must take.

118 INT. CORUSCANT-CHANCELLOR'S OFFICE-EARLY EVENING

ANAKIN brings news to PALPATINE.

ANAKIN: Chancellor, we have just received a report from Master Kenobi. He has engaged General Grievous.

PALPATINE: We can only hope that Master Kenobi is up to the challenge.

ANAKIN: I should be there with him.

PALPATINE: It is upsetting to me to see that the Council doesn't seem to fully appreciate your talents. Don't you wonder why they won't make you a Jedi Master?

ANAKIN: I wish I knew. More and more I get the feeling that I am being excluded from the Council. I know there are things about the Force that they are not telling me.

PALPATINE: They don't trust you, Anakin. They see your future. They know your power will be too strong to control. Anakin, you must break through the fog of lies the Jedi have created around you. Let me help you to know the subtleties of the Force.

They walk into the hallway.

ANAKIN: How do you know the ways of the Force?

PALPATINE: My mentor taught me everything about the Force . . . even the nature of the dark side.

They stop.

ANAKIN: You know the dark side?!?

PALPATINE: Anakin, if one is to understand the great mystery, one must study all its aspects, not just the dogmatic, narrow view of the Jedi. If you wish to become a complete and wise leader, you must embrace a larger view of the Force. Be careful of the Jedi, Anakin. (pausing) They fear you. In time they will destroy you. Let me train you.

ANAKIN: I won't be a pawn in your political game. The Jedi are my family.

PALPATINE: Only through me can you achieve a power greater than any Jedi. Learn to know the dark side of the Force, Anakin, and you will be able to save your wife from certain death.

ANAKIN: What did you say?

PALPATINE: Use my knowledge, I beg you . . .

ANAKIN: You're a Sith Lord!

ANAKIN ignites his lightsaber.

PALPATINE: I know what has been troubling you . . . Listen to me. Don't continue to be a pawn of the Jedi Council! Ever since I've known you, you've been searching for a life greater than that of an ordinary Jedi . . . a life of significance, of conscience.

ANAKIN: You're wrong!

PALPATINE: Are you going to kill me?

ANAKIN: I would certainly like to.

PALPATINE: I know you would. I can feel your anger. It gives you focus, makes you stronger.

ANAKIN raises his lightsaber to PALPATINE's throat. There is a tense moment, then ANAKIN relaxes, and then turns off his lightsaber.

ANAKIN: I am going to turn you over to the Jedi Council.

PALPATINE: Of course you should. But you're not sure of their intentions, are you? What if I am right and they are plotting to take over the Republic?

ANAKIN: I will quickly discover the truth of all this.

PALPATINE: You have great wisdom, Anakin. Know the power of the dark side. The power to save Padme.

ANAKIN stares at him for a moment.
PALPATINE turns and moves to his office.

PALPATINE: (continuing) I am not going anywhere. You have time to decide my fate. Perhaps you'll reconsider and help me rule the galaxy for the good of all . . .

PALPATINE sits behind his desk.

119 EXT. UTAPAU-CLIFF AND LANDING PLATFORM-DAY

OBI-WAN gives the LIZARD a swift kick with the heel of his boot, and they take off down the vertical side of the sheer cliff. As GENERAL GRIEVOUS reaches the landing platform where his shuttle is waiting. OBI-WAN drops onto the top of the starship with his LIZARD. GENERAL GRIEVOUS spins his scooter around and takes off up the vertical cliff face with OBI-WAN and his LIZARD in hot pursuit. The sinkhole is engulfed in a great battle between CLONES and DROIDS. The PEOPLE OF UTAPAU cower in whatever shelter they can find.

120 EXT. UTAPAU-MAIN CITY PLAZA-DAY

A LARGE GROUP OF UTAPAUAN TROOPS on LIZARDS attack the DROID ARMY.

OBI-WAN and GENERAL GRIEVOUS race through the city at breakneck speed. Passing through battle zones, narrowly escaping EXPLOSIONS, laser bolts, and TROOPS from both sides.

GENERAL GRIEVOUS lays the Scooter down as he goes around sharp turns. Obi-Wan's LIZARD breathes hard as she tries to keep up. They destroy droids, equipment, and clone troops as the JEDI and the GENERAL cut a swath of destruction through the city.

121 EXT. UTAPAU-WINDMILLS-DAY

GENERAL GRIEVOUS works his way out onto the rim of the sinkhole, passing some wind blades. The evil Droid General releases the brakes on the lethal blades, and they begin to spin, cutting off Obi-Wan's access to the General. Obi-Wan's LIZARD pulls up short in front of the blades. GENERAL GRIEVOUS laughs and talks into a comlink.

GENERAL GRIEVOUS: Prepare to move out of orbit. I will be up in a few moments.

OBI-WAN sizes up the situation, looking for a way to get to GENERAL GRIEVOUS.

The GENERAL accelerates off the edge, activating his claws, drops, and clings to another nearby grouping of windmills. Obi-Wan's LIZARD attempts to jump to follow and barely makes it, almost falling into the precipice below.

122 INT. UTAPAU-CITY TUNNEL SYSTEM-DAY

GENERAL GRIEVOUS roars through the stone block tunnel system, riding up on the curved walls as he goes around corners or passes oncoming traffic. OBI-WAN races after the Droid, his LIZARD moving onto the ceiling as they pass traffic. OBI-WAN catches up with GENERAL GRIEVOUS, and they charge through the tunnel, side by side. OBI-WAN grabs the Droid's electronic staff.

123 EXT. UTAPAU-SECRET LANDING PLATFORM-DAY

Extending from the wall of a small sinkhole is a secret landing platform with a small Federation Fighter sitting in the middle of it. OBI-WAN and GENERAL GRIEVOUS race out of the tunnel system and onto the landing platform.

OBI-WAN yanks on the staff, then jumps off his LIZARD onto the General's scooter, knocking both warriors to the ground. GENERAL GRIEVOUS pulls out a laser pistol and fires at OBI-WAN. The Jedi reaches out his hand, grabs the General's electro-staff and spins the staff, blocking the laser bolts.

OBI-WAN charges GENERAL GRIEVOUS, swinging the staff and hitting the Droid in the stomach, knocking the gun away. GENERAL GRIEVOUS is hit by the staff, and the Force bends his forearm. He pulls OBI-WAN close to him, and they engage in a furious fight. The electro-staff is knocked away. The two engage in hand-to-hand combat. OBI-WAN struggles to avoid the deadly blows of the brutal, unstoppable Droid.

GENERAL GRIEVOUS's stomachplate is loose. OBI-WAN grabs it and rips it off, revealing the alien life form's guts encased in a bag in the Droid's chest. GENERAL GRIEVOUS grabs OBI-WAN, hoists him over his head, and tosses him across the platform. OBI-WAN dangles off the edge of the platform. He clutches the rim, trying to hold on. The DROID then grabs the staff and charges OBI-WAN. At the last second, OBI-WAN reaches out his hand and uses the Force to retrieve the Droid's laser pistol.

The JEDI fires several blasts in the stomach area of the alien Droid, and he EXPLODES from the inside out. The smoldering Droid falls to the ground. OBI-WAN has killed GENERAL GRIEVOUS. He pulls himself up onto the platform and walks by the destroyed carcass.

OBI-WAN: So uncivilized . . .

OBI-WAN brushes himself off. He throws the pistol onto the platform, picks up the electro-staff, and jumps on BOGA. The trusty beast rears up and takes off into the tunnel system.

124 INT. JEDI GUNSHIP-LANDING PLATFORM-EARLY EVENING

MACE and the JEDI (AGEN KOLAR, KIT FISTO, AND SAESEE TIIN) are preparing to board a JEDI GUNSHIP to the CHANCELLOR's office. ANAKIN enters the hangar.

ANAKIN: Master Windu, I must talk to you.

MACE WiNDU: What is it, Skywalker? We are in a hurry. We have just received word that Obi-Wan has destroyed General Grievous. We are on our way to make sure the Chancellor returns emergency powers back to the Senate.

ANAKIN: He won't give up his power. I've just learned a terrible truth. I think Chancellor Palpatine is a Sith Lord.

MACE WINDU: A Sith Lord?

ANAKIN: Yes. The one we have been looking for.

MACE WiNDU: How do you know this?

ANAKIN: He knows the ways of the Force. He has been trained to use the dark side.

MACE WiNDU: Are you sure?

ANAKIN: Absolutely.

MACE WiNDU: Then our worst fears have been realized. We must move quickly if the Jedi Order is to survive.

ANAKIN: Master, the Chancellor is very powerful. You will need my help if you are going to arrest him.

MACE WiNDU: For your own good, stay out of this affair. I sense a great deal of confusion in you, young Skywalker. There is much fear that clouds your judgment.

ANAKIN: I must go, Master.

MACE WiNDU: No. If what you told me is true, you will have gained my trust, but for now remain here.

ANAKIN: Yes, Master.

MACE WiNDU: Wait for us in the Council Chamber until we return.

ANAKIN: Yes, Master.

ANAKIN watches as the JEDI leave in their ship.

125 INT. CORUSCANT-JEDI COUNCIL/PADME'S APARTMENT-EARLY EVENING

(INTERCUT)

PADME is alone in her apartment, thinking of Anakin. ANAKIN sits alone in the Jedi Council Chamber thinking of PADME.

PALPATINE: (V.O.) You do know, don't you, if the Jedi destroy me, any chance of saving her will be lost.

PADME: I truly, deeply love you. Before I die. I want you to know.

C-3PO: My Lady, are you. . . . Are you all right?

ANAKIN: I can't do this ... I can't let her die.

ANAKIN rushes out of the Council Chamber and to his speeder. The hangar door opens and he lifts off.

126 EXT. CORUSCANT-SENATE OFFICE BUILDING-LANDING PLATFORM-EARLY EVENING

The sky is still blue as a JEDI GUNSHIP lands on the Senate Office Building landing platform.
FOUR JEDI exit the SHUTTLE and enter the Senate Office Building. MACE WINDU, AGEN KOLAR, KIT FISTO, and SAESEE TIIN, like gunfighters out of the Old West, walk through the massive hallway, four across.

127 INT. CORUSCANT-LOBBY TO CHANCELLOR'S OFFICE-EARLY EVENING

The FOUR JEDI enter the lobby, raising their arms, and send the Chancellor's aide, DAR WAC, flying against the wall, along with TWO REPUBLIC GUARDS. They storm into the Chancellor's office.

128 INT. CORUSCANT-CHANCELLOR‚ÄôS OFFICE-EARLY EVENING

MACE arrives with THREE JEDI to arrest PALPATINE.

PALPATINE: Master Windu. I take it General Grievous has been destroyed then. I must say, you're here sooner than expected.

MACE WINDU: In the name of the Galactic Senate of the Republic, you are under arrest, Chancellor.

MACE WINDU and the other JEDI ignite their lightsabers.

PALPATINE: Are you threatening me, Master Jedi?

MACE: The Senate will decide your fate.

PALPATINE: (burst of anger) I am the Senate!

MACE: Not yet!

PALPATINE stands, a laser sword appears out of his cloak sleeve, and he spins toward the JEDI.

PALPATINE: It's treason, then.

A close shot of PALPATINE as the fight begins. Close shots of THREE JEDI getting cut down by PALPATINE. PALPATINE and MACE continue to fight.

Jedi Master MACE WINDU and the Sith Lord fight their way down the hallway and into the main office area. PALPATINE is able to use the Force to slam MACE against the wall, but he recovers before the Chancellor can cut him down.

ANAKIN lands his speeder, jumps out, and runs down a long corridor toward the Chancellor's office.

In the heat of battle, MACE cuts the window behind the Chancellor's desk, and it crashes away. MACE is forced out onto the ledge, which is twenty stories up. They fight over the precipice. ANAKIN arrives to see PALPATINE and MACE fighting.

They stop as MACE forces PALPATINE to drop his sword. PALPATINE and MACE start yelling at each other.

MACE WINDU: You are under arrest, My Lord.

PALPATINE: Anakin! I told you it would come to this. I was right. The Jedi are taking over.

MACE WlNDU: You old fool. The oppression of the Sith will never return. Your plot to regain control of the Republic is over . . . you have lost . . .

PALPATINE: No! No! You will die!

PALPATINE raises his hands, and lightning bolts shoot out. They are blocked by MACE's lightsaber. PALPATINE is pushed back against the window sill.

PALPATINE: He is a traitor, Anakin.

MACE WlNDU: He's the traitor. Stop him!

PALPATINE: Come to your senses, boy. The Jedi are in revolt. They will betray you, just as they betrayed me.

MACE WlNDU: Aarrrrggghhhhh . . .

PALPATINE: You are not one of them, Anakin. Don't let him kill me.

MACE WlNDU: Aarrrrggghhhhh . . .

PALPATINE: I am your pathway to power. I have the power to save the one you love. You must choose. You must stop him.

MACE WlNDU: Don't listen to him, Anakin.

PALPATINE: Help me! Don't let him kill me. I can't hold on any longer. Ahhhhhhh . . . ahhhhhhh . . . ahhhhhhh . . .

MACE pushes PALPATINE out to the edge of the ledge. As the Jedi moves closer, the bolts from Palpatine's hands begin to arch back on him. The Chancellor's face begins to twist and distort. His eyes become yellow as he struggles to intensify his powers.

PALPATINE: I can't ... I give up. Help me. I am weak ... I am too weak. Don't kill me. I give up. I'm dying. I can't hold on any longer.

MACE WlNDU: You Sith disease. I am going to end this once and for all.

ANAKIN: You can't kill him, Master. He must stand trial.

MACE WlNDU: He has too much control of the Senate and the Courts. He is too dangerous to be kept alive.

PALPATINE: I'm too weak. Don't kill me. Please.

ANAKIN: It is not the Jedi way . . .

MACE raises his sword to kill the CHANCELLOR.

ANAKIN: (continuing) He must live . . .

PALPATINE: Please don't, please don't . . .

ANAKIN: I need him . . .

PALPATINE: Please don't . . .

ANAKIN: NO!!!

Just as MACE is about to slash PALPATINE, ANAKIN steps in and cuts off the Jedi's hand holding the lightsaber.

As MACE stares at ANAKIN in shock, PALPATINE springs to life.
The full force of Palpatine's powerful Bolts blasts MACE. He attempts to deflect them with his one good hand, but the force is too great. As blue rays engulf his body, he is flung out the window and falls twenty stories to his death. No more screams. No more moans. PALPATINE lowers his arm.

PALPATINE: Power! Unlimited power!

His face has changed into a horrible mask of evil. ANAKIN looks on in horror. PALPATINE cackles.

ANAKIN: What have I done?

ANAKIN sits.

PALPATINE: You are fulfilling your destin, Anakin. Become my apprentice. Learn to use the dark side of the Force.

ANAKIN: I will do whatever you ask.

PALPATINE: Good.

ANAKIN: Just help me save Padme's life. I can't live without her. I won't let her die. I want the power to stop death.

PALPATINE: To cheat death is a power only one has achieved, but if we work together, I know we can discover the secret.

ANAKIN kneels before PALPATINE.

ANAKIN: I pledge myself to your teachings. To the ways of the Sith.

PALPATINE: Good. Good. The Force is strong with you. A powerful Sith you will become. Henceforth, you shall be known as Darth . . . Vader.

ANAKIN: Thank you. my Master.

PALPATINE: Rise, Darth Vader.

Palpatine moves over to his desk.

129 EXT. KASHYYYK-MEETING HALL-DAY

YODA winces, closes his eyes, and holds his head. He feels a disturbance in the Force.

130 INT. CORUSCANT-CHANCELLOR'S OFFICE-EVENING

PALPATINE is putting on his dark cloak: he is now fully DARTH SIDIOUS.

PALPATINE: Because the Council did not trust you, my young apprentice, I believe you are the only Jedi with no knowledge of this plot. When the Jedi learn what has transpired here, they will kill us, along with all the Senators.

ANAKIN: I agree. The Jedi's next move will be against the Senate.

PALPATINE: Every single Jedi, including your friend Obi-Wan Kenobi, is now an enemy of the Republic. You understand that, don't you?

ANAKIN: I understand, Master.

PALPATINE: We must move quickly. The Jedi are relentless; if they are not all destroyed, it will be civil war without end. First, I want you to go to the Jedi Temple. We will catch them off balance. Do what must be done, Lord Vader. Do not hesitate. Show no mercy. Only then will you be strong enough with the dark side to save Padme.

ANAKIN: What about the other Jedi spread across the galaxy?

PALPATINE: Their betrayal will be dealt with. After you have killed all the Jedi in the Temple, go to the Mustafar system. Wipe out Viceroy Gunray and the other Separatist leaders. Once more, the Sith will rule the galaxy, and we shall have peace.

131 INT. CORUSCANT-JEDI TEMPLE ENTRY-NIGHT

ANAKIN goes to the Jedi Temple with a battalion of Clone Troopers.

132 EXT. UTAPAU-TENTH LEVEL-LANDIXG PLATFORM-DAY

The battle between the CLONES and the DROIDS rages throughout the sinkhole. OBI-WAN rides up to CLONE COMMANDER CODY.

OBI-WAN: Commander, contact your troops. Tell them to move to the higher levels.

CLONE COMMANDER CODY: Very good, sir.

CLONE COMMANDER CODY starts to move away, then remembers something and returns to OBI-WAN.

CLONE COMMANDER CODY: (continuing) Oh, by the way, I think you'll be needing this.

He hands OBI-WAN his lightsaber, and the LIZARD rears up.

OBI-WAN: Thank you, Cody, (smiling) Now let's get a move on. We've got a battle to win here.

CLONE COMMANDER CODY: Yes, sir!

OBI-WAN and the LIZARD ride off down the wall of the giant sinkhole.
The battle rages throughout the city. CLONE COMMANDER CODY (2224,) takes out his comlink and listens to the HOLOGRAM OF DARTH SIDIOUS as, far below, OBI-WAN can been seen battling DROIDS on a landing platform.

DARTH SlDIOUS: Commander Cody, the time has come. Execute Order Sixty-Six.

CLONE COMMANDER CODY: It will be done, My Lord.

The HOLOGRAM disappears, and CLONE COMMANDER CODY gestures to a nearby Clone Trooper.

CLONE COMMANDER CODY: Blast him!

The battle rages all around OBI-WAN. DROIDS and CLONES are everywhere. OBI-WAN is riding on a LIZARD, cutting down DROIDS as he races across the battlefield. Suddenly a volley of laser blasts from behind him knocks him and his LIZARD off the wall of the sinkhole. He looks around just in time to see his CLONE TROOPS are firing on him.
OBI-WAN falls hundreds of feet to the bottom of the water-filled sinkhole.

133 EXT. MYGEETO-DAWN

The sky slowly awakens on the crystal world of Mygeeto. A battle rages. Clone troops battle the droid armies across a long bridge. KI-ADI-MUNDi uses his light saber to deflect enemy fire. CLONE COMMANDER BACARA (1138) exits a Gunship near the entrance to the city. He rallies his TROOPS to attack the city, then gets a message on his comlink. He stops and moves to one side as a HOLOGRAM OF DARTH SIDIOUS appears on the comlink in the palm of his hand. He moves further into the shadows.

DARTH SlDIOUS: Commander 1138 . . .

CLONE COMMANDER BACARA: Yes, sir.

DARTH SlDIOUS: The time has come. Execute Order Sixty-Six.

CLONE COMMANDER BACARA: It will be done, My Lord.

DARTH SIDIOUS fades, and the CLONE COMMANDER snaps the comlink closed and looks to the main plaza of the city, where KI-ADI-MUNDI is leading the charge. The clones stop. KI-ADI-MUNDI turns around and is blasted by clone fire. He's killed before he can defend himself.

134 EXT. FELUCIA-FOREST-DAY

A column of CLONE WALKERS marches across the forest floor. The STRANGE CALLS of the alien forest creatures of FELUCIA suddenly stop. The Jedi AAYLA SECURA and her CLONE TROOPS brace for an ambush.

AAYLA: Steady. . . . steady . . .

They all look around for signs of the enemy. CLONE COMMANDER BLY moves up behind the Jedi.

AAYLA: (continuing) Bly, do you think they're Droids?

BLY: No.

BLY blasts AAYLA in the back. The OTHER CLONES fire on her as she hits the ground.

Another Jedi, BARRISS OFFEE, is cutting down a patrol of DROIDS when a CLONE WALKING TANK and SEVEN CLONE TROOPERS round a corner and blast the Jedi away.

135 EXT. KASHYYYK-MEETING HALL-DAY

YODA drops his gimer stick, clutches his chest, and rests against a wall.

136 EXT. KASHYYYK-EDGE OF VILIAGE-DAY

The battle appears to be over. WOOKIEES stack destroyed Droids while CLONES assess the damage to their equipment. A Jedi, LUMINARA UNDULI, talks with EIGHT CLONE OFFICERS standing in a circle around her. Suddenly they reveal their hidden pistols and blast her before she can react.

The Jedi QUINLAN VOS is riding on top of a CLONE TURBO TANK. The main cannon of a second tank slowly swings to point right at him and a COUPLE OF CLONES.
The cannon fires, and QUINLAN VOS and the CLONES disappear in a huge EXPLOSION.

137 INT. CATO NEIMOIDIA-COCKPIT CLONE FIGHTER-DAY

The CLONE PILOT watches a hologram of DARTH SIDIOUS.

DARTH SIDIOUS: Execute Order Sixty-Six.

CLONE PILOT: It will be done, My Lord.

138 INT. CATO NEIMOIDIA-JEDI STARFIGHTER-DAY

PLO KOON heads his ship toward a battle on a landing platform.

PLO KOON: There they are. Land on the nearest platform.

139 EXT. CATO XEIMOIDIA-JEDI STARFIGHTER-DAY

The FOUR CLONE PILOTS with PLO KOON drop back and blast him out of the sky.

140 EXT. SALEUCAMI-FOREST

Three Speeder Bikes race through the forest. A Jedi, STASS ALLIE is in the lead. The TWO CLONES following her drop back and blast her, causing her to crash in a huge EXPLOSION.

141 INT. CORUSCANT-CHANCELLOR'S OFFICE-NIGHT

DARTH SIDIOUS stands alone in his private office, illuminated only from a hologram projector beam from above. A small HOLOGRAM OF COMMANDER GREE stands in front of him.

CLONE COMMANDER GREE: Yes, My Lord.

DABTH SIDIOUS: The time has come. Execute Order Sixty-Six.

142 EXT. KASHYYYK-MEETING HALL BALCONY-DAY

A vista of waterways, high green mesas, and giant tree cities serves as a backdrop for the fierce battle, CLONES AND WOOKIEES against TRADE FEDERATION DROID ARMIES, with treaded tank-like vehicles. CLONE COMMANDER GREE holds his comlink.

CLONE COMMANDER GREE: It will be done, My Lord.

CLONE COMMANDER GREE snaps his comlink shut.

YODA watches from the balcony. The battle rages as CLONES and WOOKIEES attack DROIDS coming across the water on CORPORATE ALLIANCE TANK DROIDS. CHEWBACCA and TARFFUL stand on either side of the Jedi Master as he watches the battle below. CLONE COMMANDER GREE and ONE OFFICER walk onto the balcony toward YODA. YODA stands looking over the battlefield below. When they are close enough, the CLONES reveal their weapons and fire.

But faster than the CLONES can reveal their weapons, YODA ignites his lightsaber, leaps in the air, and beheads both CLONES. CHEWBACCA and TARFFUL fire their weapons as more CLONES enter the hall. The Wookiees call out to YODA to follow them. CHEWBACCA picks YODA up and carries him away.

143 EXT. CORUSCANT-JEDI TEMPLE-NIGHT

A JEDI is surrounded and gunned down by CLONE TROOPERS.

144 INT. CORUSCANT-JEDI TEMPLE-NIGHT

ANAKIN walks through the Jedi Temple, where he finds and kills SHAAK TI.
He exits Shaak Ti's room and enters a hallway, where the battle is taking place.

145 INT. CORUSCANT-JEDI TEMPLE-BATTLE-NIGHT

ANAKIN enters a room full of YOUNGLINGS huddled in a corner.

YOUNGLINGS: Master Skywalker, there are too many of them. What are we going to do?

ANAKIN looks back at them with a stern expression on his face and ignites his lightsaber.

146 INT. CORUSCANT-PADME'S APARTMENT-PRE-DAWN

C-3PO and PADME look out the apartment window.

C-3PO: The Chancellor's office indicated Master Anakin returned to the Jedi Temple. Don't worry, My Lady. I am sure he will be all right.

PADME bursts into tears.

147 EXT. CORUSCANT-CITYSCAPE-PRE-DAWN

The city planet is covered in a hazy glow. A column of black smoke can be seen rising in the distance. BAIL ORGANA's Speeder flies overhead, straight toward the smoke.

148 EXT. CORUSCANT-JEDI TEMPLE-LANDING PLATFORM-PRE-DAWN

The Jedi Temple is on fire. Large plumes of smoke billow toward the sky as BAIL ORGANA lands his Speeder on a Jedi Temple platform. FOUR CLONE TROOPERS stand guard at the entrance to the Temple. They lower their guns as BAIL gets out of his Speeder and walks toward them.

BAIL ORGANA: What's going on here?!?

CLONE SERGEANT: There's been a rebellion. Don't worry, sir, the situation is under control.

The CLONES bar the Senator from entering the Temple.

CLONE SERGEANT: (continuing) I'm sorry, sir. No one is allowed entry.

The CLONES point their guns at BAIL and cock them.

CLONE SERGEANT: (continuing) It's time for you to leave, sir.

BAIL ORGANA: And so it is.

BAIL reluctantly heads hack toward his Speeder. Suddenly, several SHOTS RING OUT. BAIL turns and sees a ten-year-old Jedi, ZETT JUKASSA, fighting the CLONES. Several more CLONES join in the fight, followed by CLONE COMMANDER APPO (1119), who points at BAIL.

CLONE COMMANDER APPO: Get him! Shoot him!

SEVERAL CLONES start firing at BAIL. The Senator jumps for cover behind his Speeder, starting the engines and pulling out his laser
pistol.

The YOUNG JEDI cuts down several CLONES, including APPO, before he is overrun and shot.

The Speeder takes off with BAIL clinging to the side. The CLONES fire at it as it disappears into the cityscape.

149 EXT. CORUSCANT-CITYSCAPE-PRE-DAWN

BAIL ORGANA struggles to pull himself into the Speeder as it races along through the cityscape. Finally, he climbs in, just as the Speeder is about to hit a building. BAIL steers clear of the building and races away.

150 EXT. UTAPAU-UNDERWATER SINKHOLE-DAY

The Jedi dives below the surface amid a barrage of laser fire. He dives deeper under the water, fumbling in his utility belt for a breathing device. He finds it and puts it in his mouth. He swims underwater until the CLONE TROOPS give up and stop filing.

151 EXT. UTAPAU-UNDERWATER CAVES-DAY

OBI-WAN removes the breathing apparatus after coming up from underwater. He starts to climb the rock wall.

OBI-WAN climbs the wall to the second cave just as TWO LITTLE SEEKER DRONES pop out of the water with their searchlights glowing. OBI-WAN presses himself against the wall of the smaller cave as the TWO SEEKER DRONES search the grotto. One of the SEEKERS begins to enter the cave in which OBI-WAN is hiding. OBI-WAN presses further into the wall. The light shines on the opposite wall and moves to the back of the cave, illuminating a huge NOS MONSTER. OBI-WAN holds his breath. The SEEKER is confused for a moment, then the NOS MONSTER lunges at the SMALL DROID and consumes it in one bite.

The NOS MONSTER'S lunge takes him past OBI-WAN, out of the cave, and into the water.

The SECOND SEEKER shines its light on the NOS MONSTER as the evil creature tries to grab the LITTLE DRONE. OBI-WAN slinks off toward the back of the cave. He comes upon a nest of BABY NOS MONSTERS. They SCREECH and make horrible sounds. OBI-WAN jumps over them and continues on his way through the tunnel system.

152 EXT. KASHYYYK-LAKE ON VILLAGE EDGE-DUSK

CLONES in modified one-man AT-ST's and Swamp Speeders flash their searchlights across the gloomy lake. The light of one of the AT-ST's spots something floating in the water. It is what's left of a Wookiee catamaran. The body of a dead Wookiee (TARFFUL) is lying across the stern of the wreckage of the flying boat. There is some movement on the boat. The CLONE SERGEANT on the AT-ST fires a warning shot past the boat.

AT-ST CLONE SERGEANT: Everyone out of there!

A CRAZY LITTLE CREATURE about two feet high pops its head over the rail. The creature is covered with mud. His long hair is frizzed out in all directions.

CREATURE: Wookiee good . . . eat Wookiee. (crazy little laugh)

CLONE SERGEANT: Did you find something?

CREATURE: It's nothing, nothing. (laughs)

CLONE SERGEANT: It's nothing, nothing. All these Wookiees are dead. Move to the east.

CLONE TROOPER: Yes, sir.

Suddenly, CHEWBACCA climbs up behind the AT-ST CLONE, dripping wet, and throws the CLONE SERGEANT into the water. CHEWIE BARKS.

CREATURE: Right you are, Chewbacca. Faster that will be.

TARFFUL jumps up in the boat, and the CREATURE takes off his hair. It is Yoda.

YODA: Stink, this mud does. A moment to bathe, give me.

YODA, covered with mud, jumps into the water. TARFFUL climbs onto the AT-ST with CHEWBACCA. YODA is out of the water and putting his robes back on.

YODA: (continuing) Not far, are we, from the emergency ship. Quickly . . .

YODA whistles and a large ALIEN FLYING INSECT called CAN-CELL appears. YODA jumps on the insect's back and they take off. The WOOKIEES follow on the AT-ST. The CLONES continue to search the swamp.

153 EXT. KASHYYYK-HILLS OVERLOOKING LAKE-DUSK

The AT-ST marches up the hill and stops. The WOOKIEES jump down. YODA lands on CAN-CELL nearby. CHEWBACCA goes to a tree and pulls down one of its branches.
The ground opens up, and a small WOOKIEE ESCAPE POD rises into the field. YODA opens the door of the pod.

YODA: Good-bye. Chewbacca and Tarfful, miss you I will. Good friends you are. For your help, much gratitude and respect, I have.

The Wookiees BARK as the Jedi climbs into the WOOKIEE POD and takes off into the dusk sky.

154 EXT. CORUSCANT-SENATE OFFICE BUILDING-UNDERGROUND STARSHIP LANDING PLATFORM-DAY

BAIL ORGANA walks out of a tunnel onto a huge underground platform with two of his AIDES. He is stopped by TWO ROYAL GUARDS.

ROYAL GUARD: Identification . . .

BAIL ORGANA: Senator Bail Organa of Alderaan.

BAIL and his AIDES hand them their ID cards. The ROYAL GUARDS check them over and give them back, then BAIL and his CREW walk on board his Starship.

155 EXT. CORUSCANT-SENATE OFFICE BUILDING-UNDERGROUND LANDING PLATFORM-DAY

The platform rises to the surface of the Office Building. The ALDERAAN STARCRUISER takes off and disappears into the crisp morning sky.

156 INT ALDERAAN-STARCRUISER-HALLWAY-DAY

BAIL ORGANA is greeted by CAPTAIN ANTILLES and TWO ALDERAAN TROOPERS.

BAIL ORGANA: Were you able to get hold of a Jedi homing beacon?

CAPTAIN ANTILLES: Yes, sir. We've encountered no opposition. The clones are still a bit confused. It appears no one is in command.

BAIL ORGANA: That will change soon. Hopefully we will be able to intercept a few Jedi before they walk into this catastrophe.

157 EXT. UTAPAU-SINKHOLE WALL-LATE DAY

OBI-WAN hides from a group of CLONE TROOPERS.

CLONE CAPTAIN: Did you find Kenobi?

CLONE TROOPER: No one could have survived that fall.

He watches them pass.

CLONE CAPTAIN: Start loading your men on the ship.

CLONE TROOPER: Yes, sir.

OBI-WAN tries to sneak back to the secret platform, down a flight of stairs.

158 EXT. UTAPAU-SECRET LANDING PLATFORM-LATE DAY

OBI-WAN makes his way out of the cave and onto General Grievous's secret landing platform. He runs to the Starfighter and climbs into the one-man ship. The Starfighter takes off and disappears into the sky.

159 EXT. UTAPAU-SPACE

OBI-WAN flies away from the planet Utapau in General Grievous's tiny Starfighter.

160 INT. GENERAL GRIEVOUS'S STARFIGHTER-SPACE

OBI-WAN activates the controls on the Starfighter. He punches in several coordinates and codes. A BEEPING SOUND is heard. It quickly speeds up until it is a steady tone. OBI-WAN speaks into his comlink.

OBI-WAN: Emergency Code Nine Thirteen ... I have no contact on any frequency. Are there any Jedi out there? . . . anywhere . . .

A BURST OF STATIC is heard- and a FUZZY HOLOGRAM image appears.

BAIL: (hologram) . . . Kenobi . . .

OBI-WAN: (continuing) I've locked on. Repeat.

The FUZZY HOLOGRAM image comes into focus, and it is BAIL ORGANA.

BAIL ORGANA: Master Kenobi??

OBI-WAN: Senator Organa! My Clone Troops turned on me ... I need help.

BAIL ORGANA: We have just rescued Master Yoda. It appears this ambush has happened everywhere. We're sending you our coordinates.

161 INT. CORUSCANT-PADME‚ÄôSAPARTMENT-PRE-DAWN

PADME stands before the window of her living room, watching the plume of smoke from the Jedi Temple. C-3PO enters from the bedroom.

C-3PO: My Lady, there's a Jedi fighter docking on the veranda.

PADME turns and rushes to the bedroom.

162 EXT. CORUSCANT-PADME'S APARTMENT-VERANDA-PRE-DAWN

THREEPIO walks out to ANAKIN's ship and talks with ARTOO. ARTOO beeps.

THREEPIO: Hush! Not so loud!

PADME rushes onto the veranda as ANAKIN exits his GREEN JEDI FIGHTER. They embrace.

PADME: Are you all right? I heard there was an attack on the Jedi Temple . . . you can see the smoke from here.

ANAKIN: I'm fine. I'm fine. I came to see if you and the baby are safe.

PADME: Captain Typho's here, we're safe. What's happening?

C-3PO continues to talk to R2-D2 on the GREEN FIGHTER.

C-3PO: What is going on?

ARTOO SQUEAKS and BEEPS.

C-3PO: (continuing) You can't be anymore confused than I am.

ANAKIN: The situation is not good. The Jedi have tried to overthrow the Republic . . .

PADME: I can't believe that!

ANAKIN: I couldn't either at first, but it's true. I saw Master Windu attempt to assassinate the Chancellor myself.

C-3PO leans over and whispers to ARTOO.

C-3PO: Something important is going on! I heard a rumor they are going to banish all droids.

ARTOO BEEPS rather loudly. C-3PO puts his fingers to his lips.

C-3PO: (continuing) Shhhhhh . . . not so loud.

ARTOO BEEPS quietly.

C-3PO: (continuing) Whatever it is, we'll be the last to know.

PADME: Anakin, what are you going to do?

ANAKIN looks down for a moment and then walks away from Padme.

ANAKIN: I will not betray the Republic . . . my loyalties lie with the Chancellor and with the Senate . . . and with you.

ANAKIN turns and walks back to Padme.

PADME: What about Obi-Wan?

ANAKIN: I don't know . . . Many Jedi have been killed. We can only hope that he's remained loyal to the Chancellor.

PADME: How could this have happened?

ANAKIN: The Republic is unstable, Padme. The Jedi aren't the only ones trying to take advantage of the situation. There are also traitors in the Senate.

PADME stands and reacts ever so slightly.

PADME: What are you saying?

ANAKIN: You need to distance yourself from your friends in the Senate. The Chancellor said they will be dealt with when this conflict is over.

PADME: What if they start an inquisition? I've opposed this war. What will you do if I become a suspect?

ANAKIN: That won't happen. I won't let it.

PADME: Oh, Anakin, I'm afraid.

ANAKIN takes PADME in his arms.

ANAKIN: Have faith, my love. Everything will soon be set right. The Chancellor has given me a very important mission. The Separatists have gathered in the Mustafar system. I'm going there to end this war. Wait for me until I return . . . things will be different, I promise.

They kiss.

ANAKIN: (continuing) Please, wait for me.

PADME: I will.

ANAKIN gets into his Fighter as THREEPIO backs away.

C-3PO: (to Artoo) Well, he is under a lot of stress, Artoo.

ARTOO beeps.

C-3PO: (continuing) Take care, my little friend.

ARTOO BEEPS a good-bye, and the fighter takes off. PADME is left alone on the veranda. She starts to cry. THREEPIO comes up to her.

C-3PO: (continuing) My Lady, is there anything I might do?

PADME: No thank you, Threepio.

G-3PO: A snack, perhaps?

PADME: No.

THREEPIO starts to move off.

C-3PO: I feel so helpless.

163 EXT. ALDERAAN-STARCRUISER-SPACE

OBI-WAN's ship docks with Bail Organa's Starcruiser.

164 INT. ALDERAAN-STARCRUISER-HALLWAY-DAY

The door to the main hallway slides open. OBI-WAN enters and is greeted by YODA and BAIL ORGANA. The three walk down the hallway.

BAIL ORGANA: You made it.

YODA: Master Kenobi, dark times are these. Good to see you. it is.

OBI-WAN: You were attacked by your Clones, also?

YODA: With the help of the Wookiees, barely escape, I did.

OBI-WAN: How many other Jedi managed to survive?

YODA: Heard from no one, have we.

BAIL ORGANA: I saw thousands of troops attack the Jedi Temple. That's why I went looking for Yoda.

OBI-WAN: Have we had any contact from the Temple?

YODA: Received a coded retreat message, we have.

BAIL ORGANA: It requests all Jedi to return to the Temple. It says that the war is over . . .

OBI-WAN: Well, then we must go back! If there are other stragglers, they will fall into the trap and be killed.

BAIL ORGANA: It's too dangerous to return.

YODA: Suggest dismantling the coded signal, do you?

OBI-WAN: Yes, Master. There is too much at stake here, and we need a clearer picture of what has happened.

YODA: I agree. In a dark place we find ourselves ... a little more knowledge might light our way.

165 EXT. MUSTAFAR-LAVA FIELDS-DAY

Workers move across the lava beds, gathering the magma. A column of aliens riding giant MUSTAFAR FLEAS marches forward.

166 INT. MUSTAFAR-MAIN CONTROL CENTER-DAY

A HOLOGRAM of DARTH SIDIOUS is in the center of the room. NUTE GUNRAY and the REST OF THE SEPARATIST COALITION watch SIDIOUS.

NUTE GUNRAY: The plan has gone as you had promised, My Lord.

DARTH SIDIOUS: You have done well, Viceroy. When my new apprentice, Darth Vader, arrives, he will take care of you.

The hologram disappears.

167 INT. CRUISER-COCKPIT

The Republic Cruiser heads toward Coruscant. OBI-WAN, BAIL, YODA, and TWO PILOTS sit in the cockpit.

PILOT: We are receiving a message from the Chancellor's office, sir.

BAIL ORGANA: Send it through.

PILOT: Yes, sir.

The PILOT pushes some buttons. MAS AMEDDA appears on screen.

MAS AMEDDA: Senator Organa . . . the Supreme Chancellor of the Republic requests your presence at a special session of Congress.

BAIL ORGANA: Tell the Chancellor I will be there.

MAS AMEDDA: Very well. He will be expecting you.

MAS AMEDDA's image disappears from the screen.

BAIL ORGANA: It could be a trap.

OBI-WAN: No, I don't think so. The Chancellor will not be able to control the thousands of star systems without keeping the Senate intact.

YODA: If a special session of Congress there is, easier for us to enter the Jedi Temple it will be.

168 EXT. CORUSCANT-SENATE LANDING PLATFORM-LATE DAY

OBI-WAN, BAIL, and YODA land on Coruscant. The elevator door opens, and they step out.

GUARD: Welcome back, Senator. May I see your clearance?

BAIL ORGANA: Certainly.

GUARD: Thank you, you may proceed. We will take custody of the Jedi.

OBI-WAN: It would be better if we stayed with the Senator.

GUARD: It would be better if they stayed with you.

BAIL and his AIDES go into the Senate. YODA and OBI-WAN head for the Jedi Temple.

169 EXT. MUSTAFAR-JEDI STARFIGHTER-SPACE

ANAKIN's Jedi Starfighter heads for the hazy blood-red planet of Mustafar.

170 EXT. MUSTAFAR-LANDING PLATFORM-DAY

ANAKIN flies over the volcanoes of Mustafar and lands his Jedi Starfighter on a complex of Landing Platforms. His cockpit opens as R2-D2 pops from the ship with a happy BEEP.

ANAKIN: Artoo . . . stay with the ship.

ARTOO lets out a sad little BEEP and moves back toward the ship.

171 EXT. MUSTAFAR-LANDING PLATFORM-DAY

ANAKIN, putting on his hood, walks across a walkway upon arriving on Mustafar.

172 INT. MUSTAFAR-MAIN CONTROL CENTER-DAY

ANAKIN appears in the doorway of the control center.

NUTE GUNRAY: Welcome, Lord Vader. We've been expecting you.

Everyone in the room looks to him as he raises his hand toward a control panel, and all the exits close. The confused SEPARATISTS look around in bewilderment.

173 EXT. CORUSCANT-JEDI TEMPLE-LATE DAY

Smoke from the smoldering shell of the Jedi Temple fills the air with a brown haze.

174 INT. CORUSCANT-JEDI TEMPLE-MAIN ENTRANCE-LATE DAY

A DOZEN CLONE TROOPERS stand guard at the entrance of the Jedi Temple. Suddenly there is a flash of a lightsaber, a flurry of confusion, and all of the Clone Troopers are dead on the floor. YODA and OBI-WAN stand in the middle of the carnage.

OBI-WAN: There are several battalions of Clone Troopers on every level. Many are dressed as Jedi.

YODA: Dismantle the coded signal quickly. That group back there, soon discovered will be.

175 EXT. CORUSCANT-SENATE BUILDING-SUNSET

The awesome Senate Building looms over the city. The endless traffic continues to clutter the skyline.

176 INT. CORUSCANT-SENATE CHAMBER-SUNSET

The Chancellor is in the podium in the center of the vast arena giving a speech. MAS AMEDDA stands to the right of SIDIOUS. BAIL ORGANA walks through the hallway of the Main Senate Chamber. He enters the Senate Pod of Naboo and sits next to PADME. JAR JAR, CAPTAIN TYPHO and TWO HANDMAIDENS are in the pod also.

PALPATINE: . . . and the Jedi Rebellion has been foiled.

BAIL ORGANA: I was held up. What's happening?

PADME: The Chancellor has been elaborating on a plot by the Jedi, to overthrow the Senate.

BAIL ORGANA: That's not true!

PADME: He's been presenting evidence all afternoon.

BAIL ORGANA: And the Senate will go along with it, just like they always do.

PALPATINE: The remaining Jedi will be hunted down and defeated. (applause) Any collaborators will suffer the same fate.

(applause)

These have been trying times, but we have passed the test.

177 INT. CORUSCANT-JEDI TEMPLE-HALLWAY-SUNSET

YODA and OBI-WAN make their way through the Temple, avoiding the HUNDREDS OF CLONE TROOPERS. They use the Force to distract the CLONES when they can.
YODA and OBI-WAN walk through the ruins of the Temple until they come across the bodies of some students.

OBI-WAN: Not even the younglings survived.

YODA: Killed not by clones, this Padawan. By a lightsaber, he was.

OBI-WAN: . . .Who?? Who could have done this?

178 INT. MUSTAFAR-MAIN CONTROL CENTER-DAY

ANAKIN ignites his lightsaber, NUTE and the OTHERS panic. The DROIDS at the controls and the GUARDS grab their weapons, but it is too late. They are cut down in a flash. The Separatists bang on the doors, and NUTE and RUNE HAAKO flee under a table.

ANAKIN, stone-faced, moves through the room like the grim reaper. Bodies drop everywhere. SCREAMS are cut short as the head of the Banking Clan dies.

Then POGGLE THE LESSER loses his head; WAT TAMBOR, SHU MAI, and the REST OF THE SEPARATISTS run into the conference room.

179 INT. CORUSCANT-SENATE CHAMBER-SUNSET

PALPATINE: The attempt on my life has left me scarred and deformed, but I assure you my resolve has never been stronger.

Applause.

180 INT. MUSTAFAR-MAIN CONTROL CENTER-DAY

In the hallway, ANAKIN cuts down DROIDS and SEPARATISTS alike. He is unstoppable. ANAKIN turns his head-his eyes are yellow.

181 INT. CORUSCANT-SENATE CHAMBER-SUNSET

PALPATINE continues his speech at the podium.

PALPATINE: The war is over. (applause) The Separatists have been defeated, (applause) and the Jedi rebellion has been foiled. We stand on the threshold of a new beginning.

There is a long period of APPLAUSE.

PADME: Well, this is the moment we discover if he intends to return the Republic to a democracy.

PALPATINE: In order to ensure our security and continuing stability, the Republic will be reorganized into the first Galactic Empire, for a safe and secure society which I assure you will last for ten thousand years.

There is a loud, sustained CHEER from the Senate. BAIL ORGANA and PADME sit, dumbfounded.

PALPATINE: (continuing) An empire that will continue to be ruled by this august body, and a sovereign ruler chosen for life . . .

The Senate CHEERS again. BAIL and PADME are devastated. PADME begins to cry.

PALPATINE: (continuing) An empire ruled by the majority . . . Ruled by a new constitution . . .

The Senate APPLAUDS.

PADME: So this is how liberty dies, with thunderous applause . . .

BAIL ORGANA: We cannot let this happen.

He starts to stand up. PADME stops him.

PADME: Not now! There will be a time.

182 INT. MUSTAFAR-MAIN CONTROL CENTER-CONFERENCE ROOM-DAY

After everyone in the Main Control Room is dead, ANAKIN moves to the small conference room where WAT TAMBOR. SHU MAI, and some OTHER SEPARATISTS are hiding. RUNE HAAKO tries to run but is trapped by a dead-end as ANAKIN advances.

RUNE HAAKO: Stop! Enough, this is not right!

RUNE is cut down. NUTE GUNRAY crawls out from under the table and opens the Main Door, allowing DESTROYER DROIDS to enter. WAT TAMBOR is cut down, along with SHU MAI. DESTROYER DROIDS appear in the doorway and blast away, causing total destruction. When the firing is over, ANAKIN is gone. Blown away? No. ANAKIN drops from the ceiling behind the TWO DROIDS and cuts them to pieces before they know what hit them.

183 INT. MUSTAFAR-MAIN CONTROL CENTER-HALLWAY-DAY

NUTE GUNRAY is the last Separatist leader alive. ANAKIN moves on to find NUTE GUNRAY hiding in an alcove.

NUTE GUNRAY: The war is over. Lord Sidious promised us peace ... we only want . . .

NUTE GUNRAY is cut down in midsentence.

184 INT. CORUSCANT-JEDI TEMPLE-COMPUTER ROOM-NIGHT

OBI-WAN stands in a large computer area as YODA looks on, in the hatchway to the Main Control Center.

OBI-WAN: I've recalibrated the code warning all surviving Jedi to stay away.

YODA: Good . . . For the Clones to discover the recalibration, a long time it will take. To change it back, longer still. Hurry.

185 INT. CORUSCANT-JEDI TEMPLE-CONTROL CENTER-NIGHT

OBI-WAN enters the Main Control Center with YODA and heads for the hologram area.

OBI-WAN: Wait, Master. There is something I must know . . .

YODA: If into the security recordings you go, only pain will you find.

OBI-WAN: I must know the truth, Master.

OBI-WAN moves to a panel and flips some switches. He sees a HOLOGRAM of ANAKIN slaughtering JEDI, including the YOUNG ONES. OBI-WAN and YODA react.

OBI-WAN: (continuing) It can't be . . . It can't be . . .

As ANAKIN surveys the carnage, a DARK-ROBED SITH LORD enters. ANAKIN turns to DARTH SIDIOUS and kneels before him.

ANAKIN: The traitors have been taken care of, Lord Sidious.

DARTH SlDIOUS: Good . . . good . . . You have done well, my new apprentice. Do you feel your power growing?

ANAKIN: Yes, My Master.

DARTH SlDIOUS: Now, Lord Vader, now go and bring peace to the Empire.

OBI-WAN watches in horror. Tears well up in his eyes.

OBI-WAN: I can't watch any more.

OBI-WAN switches off the hologram. The TWO JEDI stand in silence for a few moments.

YODA: Destroy the Sith, we must.

OBI-WAN: Send me to kill the Emperor. I will not kill Anakin.

YODA: To fight this Lord Sidious, strong enough, you are not.

OBI-WAN: He is like my brother ... I cannot do it.

YODA: Twisted by the dark side, young Skywalker has become. The boy you trained, gone he is . . . Consumed by Darth Vader.

OBI-WAN: How could it have come to this?

YODA: To question, no time there is.

OBI-WAN: I do not know where the Emperor has sent him. I don't know where to look.

YODA: Use your feelings, Obi-Wan, and find him, you will. Visit the new Emperor, my task is. May the Force be with you.

OBI-WAN: May the Force be with you, Master Yoda.

186 INT. CORUSCANT-PADME'S APARTMENT-AFTERNOON

A DC0052 Intergalactic Speeder pulls up to the veranda landing of Padme's apartment.

187 EXT. CORUSCANT -PADME'S APARTMENT-VERANDA-AFTERNOON

The cockpit of the sleek yellow Galactic Speeder opens, and a HOODED FIGURE emerges and walks onto the veranda. An ALARM GOES OFF deep in the apartment. The FIGURE stops before a security curtain that protects the veranda. C-3PO enters the veranda and approaches the FIGURE.

C-3PO: Hello, might I help you . . . Oh, it's you, Master Kenobi. Come in, quickly.

The security curtain disappears, and the FIGURE lifts his hood. It is OBI-WAN. The alarm stops sounding.

OBI-WAN: Has Anakin been here . . . ?

C-3PO: Yes . . . right after the attack on the Jedi Temple.

PADME comes down the stairs in a robe. THREEPIO leaves.

PADME: Master Kenobi . . .

She embraces Obi-Wan.

PADME: (continuing) Oh, Obi-Wan, thank goodness . . . you're alive.

OBI-WAN: The Republic has fallen. Padme . . . The Jedi Order is no more . . .

PADME: I know, it's hard to believe everything to which we've dedicated our lives is gone.

OBI-WAN: I believe we have been part of a plot hundreds of years in the making.

PADME: The Senate is still intact, there is some hope.

OBI-WAN: No. Padme . . . It's over . . . The Sith now rule the galaxy as they did before the Republic.

PADME: The Sith!?!

OBI-WAN: I'm here looking for Anakin . . . When was the last time you saw him?

PADME: Yesterday.

OBI-WAN: And do you know where he is now?

PADME: (looks down) No.

OBI-WAN: Padme, I need your help. He's in grave danger.

PADME: From the Sith?

OBI-WAN: From himself . . . Padme, Anakin has turned to the dark side.

PADME: You're wrong! How could you even say that?

OBI-WAN: I have seen a security hologram of him killing younglings.

PADME: Not Anakin! He couldn't!

OBI-WAN: He was deceived by a lie. We all were. It appears that the Chancellor is behind everything, including the war. Palpatine is the Sith Lord we've been looking for. After the death of Count Dooku, Anakin became his new apprentice.

PADME: I don't believe you ... I can't.

OBI-WAN: Padme, I must find him.

PADME: You're going to kill him, aren't you?

OBI-WAN: He has become a very great threat.

As PADME moves to sit down, she reveals her pregnancy.

PADME: I can't . . .

OBI-WAN: Anakin is the father, isn't he?

PADME looks away.

OBI-WAN: (continuing) I'm so sorry.

OBI-WAN turns and leaves as PADME stares transfixed, not knowing what to do. She is worried and tormented. OBI-WAN takes off in the Speeder. She studies the japor snippet that is hanging around her neck.

188 INT. MUSTAFAR-LANDING PLATFORM-DAY

R2-D2 waits forlornly for his Master in front of the Jedi Starfighter.

189 INT. MUSTAFAR-MAIN CONTROL CENTER-DAY

ANAKIN surveys the slaughter with a crazed look in his eyes.

190 INT. MUSTAFAR-CONTROL CENTER-BALCONY-DAY

ANAKIN stares out at Mustafar, standing on the control room balcony.

191 EXT. CORUSCANT-LANDING PLATFORM-SUNSET

A small Naboo Skiff rests on a landing platform in the vast congestion of Coruscant. PADME gets out of her Speeder, followed by CAPTAIN TYPHO and C-3PO.

CAPTAIN TYPHO: My Lady, let me come with you.

PADME: There is no danger. The fighting is over, and . . . this is personal.

TYPHO bows.

CAPTAIN TYPHO: As you wish, My Lady . . . but I strongly disagree.

PADME: I'll be all right, Captain.

He goes to the speeder and gets in.

PADME: (continuing) This is something I must do myself. Besides, Threepio will look after me.

C-3PO: Oh, dear.

TYPHO takes off and PADME and THREEPIO board the small NABOO SKIFF. A shadow moves out from under the SKIFF. It is OBI-WAN. He quickly jumps on the retracting ramp as the SKIFF takes off.

192 INT. NABOO SKIFF

THREEPIO chatters away as PADME breaks down in tears, the painful reality sinking in.

C-3PO: Green light. Do you know that I think I'm beginning to get the hang of this flying business.

OBI-WAN stows away on Padme's ship. The ship lifts from the landing platform and heads into the traffic lanes.

193 INT. CORUSCANT-SENATE ARENA-CHANCELLOR'S HOLDING OFFICE-SUNSET

A HOLOGRAM OF ANAKIN appears before PALPATINE in his office at the bottom of the Senate Arena.

DARTH VADER: The Separatists are taken care of, My Master.

DARTH SlDIOUS: It is finished, then. You have restored peace and justice to the galaxy. You have done well, Lord Vader.

DARTH VADER: Thank you, My Master.

194 INT. MUSTAFAR-COXFERENCE ROOM-DAY

A Hologram of Sidious speaks with Anakin in the Mustafar control room.

DARTH SlDIOUS: Send a message to the ships of the Trade Federation. Tell them the Separatist leaders have been wiped out. Grievous and Dooku have been destroyed. All droid units must shut down immediately.

DARTH VADER: Very good, My Lord.

ANAKIN sees Padme's ship arriving on the screen and goes out to meet her.

195 EXT. MUSTAFAR-LANDING PLATFORM-DAY

The sleek NABOO SKIFF lands on the Mustafar landing platform near Anakin's GREEN STARFIGHTER. ANAKIN runs up to the SKIFF as the ramp lowers. PADME runs to him.

ANAKIN: Padme, I saw your ship . . .

They embrace.

PADME: Oh, Anakin!

ANAKIN: It's all right, you're safe now. What are you doing out here?

PADME: I was so worried about you. Obi-Wan told me terrible things.

ANAKIN: What things?

PADME: He said you have turned to the dark side . . . that you killed younglings.

ANAKIN: Obi-Wan is trying to turn you against me.

PADME: He cares about us.

ANAKIN: Us??!

PADME: He knows . . . He wants to help you.

ANAKIN: Is Obi-Wan going to protect you? He can't ... he can't help you. He's not strong enough.

PADME: Anakin, all I want is your love.

ANAKIN: Love won't save you, Padme. Only my new powers can do that.

PADME: At what cost? You are a good person. Don't do this.

ANAKIN: I won't lose you the way I lost my mother! I've become more powerful than any Jedi has ever dreamed of and I've done it for you. To protect you.

PADME: Come away with me. Help me raise our child. Leave everything else behind while we still can.

ANAKIN: Don't you see, we don't have to run away anymore. I have brought peace to the Republic. I am more powerful than the Chancellor. I can overthrow him, and together you and I can rule the galaxy. Make things the way we want them to be.

PADME: I don't believe what I'm hearing . . . Obi-Wan was right. You've changed.

ANAKIN: I don't want to hear any more about Obi-Wan. The Jedi turned against me. Don't you turn against me.

PADME: I don't know you anymore. Anakin, you're breaking my heart. I'll never stop loving you, but you are going down a path I
can't follow.

ANAKIN: Because of Obi-Wan?

PADME: Because of what you've done . . . what you plan to do. Stop, stop now. Come back! I love you.

ANAKIN: (seeing Obi-Wan) Liar!

PADME turns around and. sees OBI-WAN standing in the doorway of the Naboo Cruiser.

PADME: No!

ANAKIN: You're with him. You've betrayed me! You brought him here to kill me!

PADME: NO! Anakin. I swear ... I ...

ANAKIN reaches out, and PADME grabs her throat as she starts to choke.

OBI-WAN: Let her go, Anakin.

ANAKIN: What have you and she been up to?

OBI-WAN: Let her go!

ANAKIN releases his grip on the unconscious PADME and she crumples to the ground.

ANAKIN: You turned her against me.

OBI-WAN: You have done that yourself.

ANAKIN: You will not take her from me.

ANAKIN throws off his cloak.

OBI-WAN: Your anger and your lust for power have already done that.

OBI-WAN flings off his cloak.

OBI-WAN: (continuing) You have allowed this Dark Lord to twist your mind until now . . . until now you have become the very thing you swore to destroy.

They circle each other until OBI-WAN is near PADME. He places his hand on her.

ANAKIN: Don't lecture me, Obi-Wan. I see through the lies of the Jedi. I do not fear the dark side as you do. I have brought peace, justice, freedom, and security to my new Empire.

OBI-WAN: Your new Empire?

ANAKIN: Don't make me kill you.

OBI-WAN: Anakin, my allegiance is to the Republic ... to democracy.

ANAKIN: If you're not with me, you're my enemy.

OBI-WAN: Only a Sith Lord deals in absolutes. I will do what I must.

(ignites his lightsaber)

ANAKIN: You will try.

ANAKIN ignites his lightsaber.

ANAKIN lashes out at OBI-WAN, and they begin a ferocious sword fight. ANAKIN throws CONTAINERS at OBI-WAN using the Force.
They work their way off the landing platform and into the main entry hallway. ANAKIN kicks OBI-WAN, and OBI-WAN drops to a lower level.
ARTOO BEEPS his concern and rushes to the unconscious PADME's aid.

196 INT. CORRIDOR-SENATE ARENA-CHANCELLOR'S HOLDING OFFICE-NIGHT

YODA enters, using the Force to throw two RED GUARDS against the wall, knocking them unconscious. DARTH SIDIOUS turns his chair toward YODA. MAS AMEDDA stands behind SIDIOUS's desk.

YODA: I hear a new apprentice, you have. Emperor, or should I call you Darth Sidious.

DARTH SlDIOUS: Master Yoda, you survived.

YODA: Surprised?

DARTH SlDIOUS: Your arrogance blinds you, Master Yoda. Now you will experience the full power of the dark side.

The Dark Lord raises his arms, and LIGHTNING BOLTS shoot out, surrounding YODA.
YODA is picked up and thrown across the room, hitting the wall and sliding down in a crumpled heap. DARTH SIDIOUS chuckles.

197 INT. MUSTAFAR-PASSAGES TO MAIN CONTROL CENTER-DAY

ANAKIN and OBI-WAN move their fight toward the main control center. As the laser swords fly, bits of the hallway are cut up. OBI-WAN and ANAKIN jump and use every trick in the Jedi book.

198 EXT. MUSTAFAR-LANDING PLATFORM-NABOO CRUISER-DAY

R2-D2, tries to drag PADME on board the Naboo Cruiser. C-3PO pokes his head out of the ship's doorway.

C-3PO: What are you doing? You're going to hurt her. Wait!!

C-3PO starts down the ramp.

199 INT. CORRIDOR-SENATE ARENA-CHANCELLOR'S HOLDING OFFICE-NIGHT

MAS AMEDDA leaves the room. PALPATINE approaches a stunned YODA.

DARTH SlDIOUS: I have waited a long time for this moment, my little green friend. At last, the Jedi are no more.

YODA: Not if anything I have to say about it, Lord Sidious.

YODA uses the Force to throw DARTH SIDIOUS back, knocking him clear over his desk and onto the floor in a heap.

YODA: (continuing) At an end your rule is and not short enough it was, I must say.

DARTH SIDIOUS flies through the air, cape flapping, heading toward the exit. At the last second, YODA flies into the exit and stops the Dark Lord.

YODA: (continuing) If so powerful you are, why leave??

YODA ignites his lightsaber.

DARTH SlDIOUS: You will not stop me. Darth Vader will become more powerful than either of us.

DARTH SIDIOUS ignites his lightsaber.

YODA: Faith in your new apprentice, misplaced may be, as is your faith in the dark side of the Force.

Their swords CLASH. The battle is extremely fast and furious.


200 INT. MUSTAFAR-MAIN CONTROL CENTER-DAY

View screens EXPLODE around ANAKIN and OBI-WAN as they work their way into the Control Room. The fighting is intense. OBI-WAN is on the defensive as he jumps up on the table view screen in the center of the room.

ANAKIN: Don't make me destroy you, Master. You're no match for the dark side.

OBI-WAN: I've heard that before, Anakin . . . but I never thought I'd hear it from you.

ANAKIN forces OBI-WAN back into the Conference Room where the quarters are much closer. Sparks fly everywhere. ANAKIN jumps onto the conference table. OBI-WAN slides across the table, knocking ANAKIN over. OBI-WAN grabs ANAKIN‚Äôs lightsaber as he falls. OBI-WAN uses the Force to summon his dropped lightsaber. ANAKIN does the same.

201 INT. CORUSCANT-SENATE CHAMBER-MAIN ARENA-NIGHT

PALPATINE seeks refuge in the vast Senate Chamber. He gets into the Chancellor's Podium and it starts to rise up into the Arena. YODA makes a giant leap into the control pod. The sword fighting is intense in the confined space.

202 INT. MUSTAFAR-MAIN CONTROL CENTER-DAY

The battle intensifies.

OBI-WAN: (continuing) The flaw of power is arrogance.

OBI-WAN stands looking at his former apprentice for a moment.

ANAKIN: You hesitate . . . the flaw of compassion.

OBI-WAN and ANAKIN lock sabers. OBI-WAN puts out his hand to use the Force to push ANAKIN away. ANAKIN puts out his hand to block OBI-WAN.
Both combatants are blasted backwards onto the control panels.
They regain their footing and the battle continues. ANAKIN kicks OBI-WAN away.
They battle around the room, and eventually the door to the exterior is knocked open. They continue battling out onto the balcony.

203 INT. CORUSCANT-SENATE CHAMRER-MAIN ARENA-NIGHT

YODA unleashes a ferocious assault on PALPATINE, causing him to almost go over the edge. The Dark Lord drops his lightsaber but recovers with a BLAST OF ENERGY from his hands that surrounds YODA. YODA is deflecting the Sith Lord's lightning bolts.

The energy bolts begin to arc back on the Emperor. It looks as if the Dark Lord is doomed.

YODA: Destroy you I will, just as Master Kenobi, your apprentice will destroy.

YODA jumps to a lower Senate Pod. PALPATINE reaches out with one hand, and a Senate pod is released from its mooring and heads toward the Podium. PALPATINE uses the Force to hurl pod after pod at YODA, who ducks and jumps from one flying pod to another.

YODA leaps away from the pods. He uses the Force to hold one pod suspended in the air. The pod spins and YODA throws it back at PALPATINE, who leaps away at the last moment.

YODA leaps after him, but PALPATINE quickly turns and aims the full force of his energy bolts at the tiny green Jedi, catching him in mid-air and throwing him back hard against the Podium. The force causes YODA to drop his lightsaber. YODA blocks the lightning and throws PALPATINE backwards off the podium. YODA is knocked off the Podium and falls several hundred feet to the base of the Podium. PALPATINE follows in his pod, searching for YODA.

204 EXT. MUSTAFAR-MAIN CONTROL CENTER BALCONY-DAY

ANAKIN forces OBI-WAN down a narrow balcony outside the Control Room. He rips objects off the wall and throws them at OBI-WAN as he pushes him further and further along the walkway.

The balcony ends, and OBI-WAN is trapped. He looks over the balcony and into a river of lava.

ANAKIN cuts apiece of the balcony railing off, along with a control panel.
ALARMS SOUND, and a protective ray shield around the superstructure disappears. It tumbles into the molten abyss, disappearing in a puff of smoke. A small pipe connects the Control Center to the Main Collection Plant. OBI-WAN has no choice but to tightrope-walk out across the lava river while fighting ANAKIN.

205 EXT. MUSTAFAR-MAIN CONTROL CENTER BALCONY, PIPE ACROSS LAVA RIVER, MAIN COLLECTION PLANT-DAY

ANAKIN, following OBI-WAN, jumps down onto the flexing pipe, lands, and resumes fighting.

206 INT. MUSTAFAR-PIPE ACROSS LAVA RIVER-DAY

OBI-WAN and ANAKIN work their way across the small pipe, fighting ferociously as they go. OBI-WAN slips, throws his lightsaber up in the air, grabs on to the pipe, swings around, grabs on to an upper pipe, retrieves his lightsaber, and lands back on the original pipe. They continue to fight across the pipe until they reach the Main Collection Plant.

207 INT. CORUSCANT-SENATE OFFICE BUILDING-WIRING CHUTE-NIGHT

YODA squishes his way through a mass of wires in a small chute. He talks on his comlink.

YODA: Hurry. Careful timing we will need.

BAIL ORGANA: (in speeder) There aren't many troops on this side. Activate your homing beacon when you're ready.

208 INT. CORUSCANT-SENATE CHAMBER-MAIN ARENA-NIGHT

A Senate pod with COMMANDER THIRE (4477) and SEVERAL OTHER CLONE TROOPERS climb up to where MAS AMEDDA and PALPATINE are waiting. Beneath the Main Podium, TWENTY CLONE TROOPERS search for Yoda 's body.

CLONE COMMANDER THIRE: There is no sign of his body, sir.

MAS AMEDDA: Then he is not dead.

PALPATINE: Double your search.

CLONE COMMANDER THIRE: Yes sir. Right away, sir.

PALPATINE: (to Mas Amedda) Tell Captain Kagi to prepare my shuttle for immediate takeoff.

MAS AMEDDA: Yes, Master.

PALPATINE: I sense Lord Vader is in danger.

PALPATINE walks into the Arena hallway. COMMANDER THIRE descends down to the floor of the Arena, where an intense search is taking place. SEVERAL CURIOUS SENATORS rubberneck in scattered pods.

209 EXT. MUSTAFAR-COLLECTION PANELS-DAY

OBI-WAN and ANAKIN battle on the top of the multispired collection panels, jumping from one to the other. At the end of the collection cluster, a huge spray of lava covers the attachments that hold up the collectors. The frame begins to melt. It's raining lava. Both ANAKIN and OBI-WAN run for cover under the collection cluster. They continue to fight in the lava rain, darting from cover to attack, then quickly retreating to cover.
Support for the entire structure begins to fall away, and the collection cluster falls into the lava river. The Jedi continue their fight, climbing to the highest point on the tower as the rest begins to melt away as it rides the swift current down the river.

It bends toward the lava as they get out toward the end. The fighting gets fierce. OBI-WAN gets to the end and is trapped. The tower slowly starts to sink under the lava.

210 EXT. CORUSCANT-SENATE OFFICE BUILDING-NIGHT

BAIL ORGANA, in his open Cockpit Speeder, flies along next to the roof eave of the huge Senate Building. He slows and moves closer to a long row of recessed lights. Suddenly YODA falls out of one of the light recesses and lands in the Speeder. BAIL guns it and heads away from the Senate Building.

211 INT. CORUSCANT-BAIL ORGANA'S SPEEDER-NIGHT

YODA straightens himself out.

YODA: Into exile I must go. Failed, I have.

YODA and BAIL fly into the traffic of the city.

212 EXT. MUSTAFAR-COLLECTION PANELS-DAY

OBI-WAN realizes he is getting very close to the edge of the lava falls. He grabs a rope and leaps from the collection arm. ANAKIN follows.
ANAKIN and OBI-WAN continue their sword fight hanging from cables as they swing past each other.

213 EXT. MUSTAFAR-LANDING PLATFORM-NABOO SKIFF-DAY

C-3PO carefully lifts PADME into his arms. R2-D2 nervously looks on. BEEPING.

C-3PO: I am being careful. I've got a good hold on her, but . . . I'm worried about my back. I hope it's able to hold up under this weight.

C-3PO carries PADME into the Naboo Skiff.

214 EXT. MUSTAFAR-COLLECTION PANELS-DAY

From their cables, ANAKIN and OBI-WAN both spot something that causes them to stop fighting. The lava river ahead drops off in a tremendous lava fall.

SNAPPING AND METAL GROANS are heard as the main part of the collector starts to break away and move toward the lava fall. OBI-WAN looks around and sees a small floating platform making its way toward the tower.

OBI-WAN does a double hack-flip and lands squarely on the floating platform. He immediately leans to one side and moves away from the tower.

ANAKIN realizes he is doomed as the entire tower heads for the falls. In the distance he sees some CONSTRUCTION DROIDS. He swings back to the tower, climbs up and makes a running leap and miraculously lands on A WORKER DROID. The DROID is confused and chatters to his CO-WORKER. The giant collector goes over the lava flow and disappears in the mist of sparks below.

OBI-WAN heads for the bank of the lava river, but Anakin's DROID is faster. He catches up with his old Master.

OBI-WAN and ANAKIN continue the swordfight. They battle away, balancing on the tiny platform and puzzled DROID. ANAKIN, standing on the Droid, approaches OBI-WAN on the work platform.

OBI-WAN: I have failed you, Anakin. I was never able to teach you to think.

ANAKIN and OBI-WAN confront each other on the lava river.

ANAKIN: I should have known the Jedi were plotting to take over . . .

OBI-WAN: From the Sith!!! Anakin, Chancellor Palpatine is evil.

ANAKIN: From the Jedi point of view! From my point of view, the Jedi are evil.

OBI-WAN: Well, then you are lost!

ANAKIN: This is the end for you, My Master. I wish it were otherwise.

ANAKIN jumps and flips onto OBI- WAN's platform. The fighting continues again until OBI-WAN jumps toward the safety of the black sandy edge of the lava river. He yells at Anakin.

OBI-WAN: It's over, Anakin. I have the high ground.

ANAKIN: You underestimate my power!

OBI-WAN: Don't try it.

ANAKIN follows, and OBI-WAN cuts his young apprentice at the knees, then cuts off his left arm in the blink of an eye. ANAKIN tumbles down the embankment and rolls to a stop near the edge of the lava.

ANAKIN struggles to pull himself up the embankment with his mechanical hand. His thin leather glove has been burned off. He keeps sliding down in the black sand.

OBI-WAN: (continuing) . . . You were the Chosen One! It was said that you would, destroy the Sith, not join them. It was you who would bring balance to the Force, not leave it in Darkness.

OBI-WAN picks up Anakin's light saber and begins to walk away. He stops and looks back.

ANAKIN: I hate you!

OBI-WAN: You were my brother, Anakin. I loved you.

ANAKIN'S clothing blows into the lava river and ignites. Suddenly ANAKIN bursts into flames and starts SCREAMING.

215 INT. MUSTAFAR-VOLCANO EDGE-DAY

OBI-WAN looks in horror as ANAKIN becomes engulfed in flames. OBI-WAN can't watch him as he struggles to climb the embankment, covered in flames.

He runs back to Padme's ship as ANAKIN drops, smoldering, near the top of the lava pit.

216 EXT. MUSTAFAR-LANDING PLATFORM-NABOO SKIFF-DAY

OBI-WAN makes his way to the SKIFF. He looks for Padme. THREEPIO sticks his head out the door of the SKIFF.

C-3PO: Master Kenobi! We have Miss Padme on board. Please, please hurry. We should leave this dreadful place.

OBI-WAN runs on board the Naboo Skiff.

217 EXT. MUSTAFAR-LANDING PLATFORM-NABOO SKIFF-DAY

PADME lies on a cot or bed inside the ship. OBI-WAN walks over and checks on her.

PADME: Obi-Wan? Is Anakin all right?

OBI-WAN looks at her sadly and does not answer. He brushes her hair back. Padme drops back into unconsciousness. ARTOO watches over her.
OBI-WAN rides in the co-pilot's station. He sits looking pensive. THREEPIO drives.

218 EXT. MUSTAFAR-VOLCANO EDGE-DAY

ANAKIN crawls up the bank, his body smoking. A shuttle flies overhead and lands.

219 EXT. MUSTAFAR-LANDING PLATFORM-IMPERIAL SHUTTLE-DAY

An Imperial Shuttle closes its wings and settles on the highest of the Mustafar Landing Platforms. A PLATOON OF CLONE TROOPERS exits the craft, followed by DARTH SIDIOUS.

220 INT. MUSTAFAR-VOLCANO PIT-DAY

DARTH SIDIOUS walks in front of the CLONE TROOPERS on his way to get to Anakin at the edge of the lava pit.

221 EXT. MUSTAFAR-VOLCANO PIT-DAY

DARTH SIDIOUS discovers what remains of ANAKIN and checks him out. He turns to the CLONES.

DARTH SIDIOUS: Anakin! Anakin! There he is. He's still alive. Get a medical capsule, immediately.

CLONE CAPTAIN: Yes sir. Right away.

Several of the CLONES rush off as DARTH SIDlOUS puts his hand on ANAKIN's forehead.

222 INT. POLIS MASSA-OBSERVATION DOME-NIGHT

On the isolated asteroid of Polis Massa, YODA meditates.

YODA: Failed to stop the Sith Lord, I have. Still much to learn, there is ...

QUI -GON: (V.O.) Patience. You will have time. I did not. When I became one with the Force I made a great discovery. With my training, you will be able to merge with the Force at will. Your physical self will fade away, but you will still retain your consciousness. You will become more powerful than any Sith.

YODA: Eternal consciousness.

QUI-GON: (V.O.) The ability to defy oblivion can be achieved, but only for oneself. It was accomplished by a Shaman of the Whills. It is a state acquired through compassion, not greed.

YODA: . . . to become one with the Force, and influence still have . . . A power greater than all, it is.

QUI-GON: (V.O.) You will learn to let go of everything. No attachment, no thought of self. No physical self.

YODA: A great Jedi Master, you have become, Qui-Gon Jinn. Your apprentice I gratefully become.

YODA thinks about this for a minute, then BAIL ORGANA enters the room and breaks his meditation.

BAIL ORGANA: Excuse me, Master Yoda. Obi-Wan Kenobi has made contact.

223 EXT. MUSTAFAR-LANDING PLATFORM-DAY

The CLONES have placed ANAKIN in a medical capsule. They float the wounded Sith Lord into the belly of the IMPERIAL CRUISER. DARTH SIDIOUS follows the capsule into the ship. The ship takes off.

224 EXT. POLIS MASSA-LANDING PLATFORM-NIGHT

OBI-WAN lands the Naboo Cruiser on the landing platform of the isolated post of Polis Massa. YODA and BAIL ORGANA, along with a FEW GROUND CREW, are waiting as the ramp lowers and OBI-WAN emerges, carrying the unconscious PADME in his arms, followed by ARTOO and THREEPIO.

BAIL ORGANA: We'll take her to the medical center, quickly.

225 EXT. LANDING PLATFORM-CORUSCANT-IMPERIAL REHAB CENTER-DAY

The shuttle lands. DARTH SIDIOUS and CLONE TROOPERS leave the shuttle. ANAKIN's body is carried along in a floating medical capsule.

226 INT. POLIS MASSA-MEDICAL CENTER-NIGHT

POLIS MEDICS work, on PADME in an operating theater. OBI-WAN and one of the MEDICAL DROIDS enter an observation room where BAIL and YODA are waiting.

MEDICAL DROID: Medically, she is completely healthy. For reasons we can't explain, we are losing her.

OBI-WAN: She's dying?

MEDICAL DROID: We don't know why. She has lost the will to live. We need to operate quickly if we are to save the babies.

BAIL ORGANA: Babies??!!

MEDICAL DROID: She's carrying twins.

YODA: Save them, we must. They are our last hope.

The MEDICAL DROID rushes back to the operating room. ARTOO and THREEPIO watch, greatly puzzled. ARTOO BEEPS.

C-3PO: It s some kind of reproductive process, I think.

227 INT. CORUSCANT-IMPERIAL REHAB CENTER-DAY

ANAKIN, in the medical capsule, is lifted onto a table in the Rehab Center. DROIDS go to work on him. ANAKIN has new legs and a new arm.

228 INT. POLIS MASSA-MEDICAL CENTER-NIGHT

The TWINS are being delivered as BAIL ORGANA, YODA, ARTOO, and THREEPIO watch. OBI-WAN is in the operating theater with PADME. He takes her hand.

OBI-WAN: Don't give up, Padme.

PADME winces from the pain. The MEDICAL DROID is holding the BABY.

MEDICAL DROID: It's a boy.

PADME: Luke . . .

PADME can only offer up a faint smile. She struggles to touch the baby on the forehead.

MEDICAL DROID: ... and a girl.

PADME: . . . Leia.

R2-D2, THREEPIO and BAIL ORGANA watch from an adjoining space.

229 INT. CORUSCANT-IMPERIAL REHAB CENTER-DAY

VADER, dressed in his black body armor, lies on the table. Nose plugs are inserted and the mask drops from above, sealing tightly. The helmet is fitted and VADER begins breathing.

230 INT. POLIS MASSA-MEDICAL CENTER-NIGHT

OBI WAN leans over PADME and softly speaks to her.

OBI-WAN: You have twins, Padme They need you . . . hang on.

PADME: I can't . . .

PADME winces again and takes OBI-WAN's hand. She is holding Anakin's japor snippet.

OBI-WAN: Save your energy.

PADME: Obi-Wan . . . there . . . is good in him. I know there is ... still . . .

A last gasp, and she dies. Obi-Wan studies the necklace.

231 INT. CORUSCANT-IMPERIAL REHAB CENTER-DAY

DARTH SIDIOUS hovers around the periphery of a group of MEDICAL DROIDS who are working on ANAKIN. DARTH SIDIOUS paces in the foreground. A DROID approaches the Dark Lord.

MEDICAL DROID: My Lord, the construction is finished ... he lives.

DARTH SIDIOUS: Good. Good.

The DROID moves back to the table where DARTH VADER lies. The table begins to move upright. DARTH SIDIOUS moves in next to DARTH VADER.

DARTH SIDIOUS: (continuing) Lord Vader, can you hear me?

DARTH VADER, with his dark mask and helmet, moves up into the frame until he is in a CLOSEUP.

DARTH VADER: Yes, My Master.

DARTH VADER looks around the room.

DARTH VADER: (continuing) Where is Padme? Is she safe, is she all right?

DARTH SIDIOUS moves closer to the half droid/half man.

DARTH SIDIOUS: I'm afraid she died. ... it seems in your anger, you killed her.

A LOW GROAN emanates from Vader's mask. Suddenly everything in the room begins to implode, including some of the DROIDS.

DARTH VADER: I couldn't have! She was alive! I felt her! She was alive! It's impossible! No!!!

VADER SCREAMS, breaks his bonds to the table, and steps forward, waving his hands, causing objects to fly around the room. SIDIOUS deflects the objects, but some of the DROIDS aren't so lucky. VADER'S PAINFUL SCREAMS echo throughout the Center.

232 EXT. NABOO-ALDERAAN STARCRUISER

BAIL ORGANA's Starcruiser approaches the city of Theed.

233 INT. ALDERAAN CRUISER-CONFERENCE ROOM

BAIL ORGANA, YODA, and OBI-WAN sit around a conference table.

YODA: Pregnant, she must still appear. Hidden, safe, the children must be kept.

OBI-WAN: We must take them somewhere the Sith will not sense their presence.

YODA: Split up, they should be.

BAIL ORGANA: My wife and I will take the girl. We've always talked of adopting a baby girl. She will be loved with us.

OBI-WAN: And what of the boy?

YODA: To Tatooine. To his family, send him.

OBI-WAN: I will take the child and watch over him. Master Yoda, do you think Anakin's twins will be able to defeat Darth Sidious?

YODA: Strong the Force runs, in the Skywalker line. Hope, we can . . . Done, it is. Until the time is right, disappear we will.

BAIL leaves the conference room. YODA stops OBI-WAN.

YODA: (continuing) Master Kenobi, wait a moment. In your solitude on Tatooine, training I have for you.

OBI-WAN: Training??

YODA: An old friend has learned the path to immortality.

OBI-WAN: Who?

YODA: One who has returned from the netherworld of the Force to train me . . . your old Master, Qui-Gon Jinn.

OBI-WAN: Qui-Gon? But, how could he accomplish this?

YODA: The secret of the Ancient Order of the Whills, he studied. How to commune with him. I will teach you.

OBI-WAN: I will be able to talk with him?

YODA: How to join the Force, he will train you. Your consciousness you will retain, when one with the Force. Even your physical self, perhaps.

234 INT. ALDERAAN STARCRUISER-HALLWAY- SPACE

BAIL ORGANA, followed by ARTOO and THREEPIO, approaches CAPTAIN ANTILLES and TWO CREW MEMBERS.

BAIL ORGANA: Captain Antilles.

CAPTAIN ANTILLES: Yes, Your Highness.

BAIL ORGANA: I'm placing these droids in your care. Treat them well. Clean them up. Have the Protocol Droid's mind wiped.

C-3PO: Oh, no.

235 EXT. NABOO-MAIN SQUARE-DAWN

SIO BIBBLE walks with other MOURNERS.
LARGE CROWDS line the street as a flowered, covered coffin is drawn by SIX BEAUTIFUL WHITE BEASTS. SOLDIERS AND FAMILY
ATO DIGNITARIES follow the casket.
PADME's hand clutches the japor snippet.

236 EXT. DAGOBAH-DAY

A small escape pod hurls toward the swamp planet and disappears in the mist. The pod has landed, and YODA descends the ramp, surveying the unfamiliar terrain.

237 EXT. IMPERIAL STAR DESTROYER-SPACE

A Star Destroyer is surrounded by ATTACK CRUISERS. On the bridge of the Star Destroyer stands the EMPEROR and GOVERNOR
TARKIN.

DARTH VADER walks along the bridge to join the EMPEROR and GOVERNOR TARKIN. The camera PANS to reveal the huge frame
structure which is the beginning of the DEATH STAR.

238 EXT. ALDERAAN-STARCRUISER-SPACE

The ship approaches the surface of Alderaan.

239 EXT. ALDERAAN-LATE AFTERNOON

The QUEEN OF ALDERAAN sits on a balcony looking out over the awesome mountains of Alderaan. BAIL ORGANA brings a small baby to her. She takes her and rocks her.

240 EXT. TATOOINE-SUNSET

OBI-WAN rides up to the moisture farm homestead on an EOPIE. He dismounts, takes the BABY out of a papoose on his back, and walks toward AUNT BERU, who walks over to greet him. They talk for a moment, and OBI-WAN turns the baby over to the young homesteader. AUNT BERU walks to UNCLE OWEN who is standing on the ridge near the homestead. OBI-WAN leaves as OWEN, BERU, and the BABY watch the twin suns set.

IRIS OUT. END TITLES.